John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Reloaded Player's Guide: Explorer's Edition
Credits & Acknowledgements
by Shane Lacy Hensley and BD Flory
Additional Material: Matthew Cutter, Simon Lucas, Paul "Wiggy" Wade-Williams, Dave Blewer, Piotr Korys, Clint Black Editing: Simon Lucas, Dave Blewer, Piotr Korys, Jens Rushing, Matthew Cutter Deadlands Brand Manager: Matthew Cutter
Layout and Graphic Design: Aaron Acevedo, Travis Anderson, Joel Kinstle, Simon Lucas Cover Art: Mkultra Studio
Cover Design and Typesetting: Joel Kinstle, Simon Lucas Special Thanks: To Clint Black, Dave Blewer, Rob "Tex" Elliott, Sean Fish, John Goff, John & Christy Hopler, Aaron
Isaac, Jay, Amy, and Hayden Kyle, Piotr Korys, Kirsty, Dylan, and Evelyn Lucas, Rob Lusk, Randy Mosiondz, Cindi Rice, Dirk Ringersma, John Frank Rosenblum, Dave Ross, Jens Rushing, Zeke Sparkes, Teller, Paul "Wiggy" Wade-
Williams, Frank Uchmanowicz, and all those who helped us make the original Deadlands a premiere property. Fan Dedication: To Nick Zachariasen, Eric Avedissian, Sean Fish, and all the other Deadlands fans who have kept us honest for the last 10 years. Personal Dedication: To mom, dad, Michelle, Caden, and Ronan. Thank you for all the love and support. You are my world. Weird West Map by: Jared Blando
Interior Artwork: Aaron Acevedo, Travis Anderson, Chris Appel, Tom Baxa, Melissa A. Benson, Theodor Black, Peter Bradley, Brom, Heather Burton, Paul Carrick, Jim Crabtree, Thomas Denmark, Cris Dornaus, Jason Engle, Edward Fetterman, Tom Fowler, Carl Frank, Dan Frazier, Randy Gallegos, Garem, Tim Gerstmar, Simon Gustafsson, Friedrich Haas, Paul (Prof.) Herbert, Llyn Hunter, Simon Ible, Charles Keegan, Mike Kimble, Lissanne Lake, April Lee, William O'Connor, Paolo Parente, Allan Pollack, Mike Raabe, Ron Spencer, Richard
Thomas, Pete Venters, Brian Wackwitz, James Walters, Blake Wilkie, John Worsley, Cheyenne Wright Playtesters: Dan Adamski, Tom Angus, Pete Atkinson, Steve Bartell, Stephan Becker, Gary Bowerbank, Tom Braaksma, Piotr Braciak, Chris Cellestino, Harald Chuchlik, Rob Clardij, Erik Counts, Markus Finster, Carter Geyerman, James Geyerman, Greg Gruschow, Marc Hameleers, Tim Hannon, Vince Knuffman, Piotr Korys, Michal Kuzniacki, Jos Lauwers, Erika Lexen, Rob Lusk, Gary Matthews, Marcin Ostrowski, Julian Pritchard, Jess Ray, Andrew Read, David Ross, Tom Rued, Benjamin Schollnick, Catherine Schollnick, Shay Smith, Mark Spanjer, Baz Stevens, Josef Teufer, Michaela Trimmel, Philip Verhagen, Ronald de Vries, Greg Whalen, Eljay
Wharff, Martin Whittick, Tom Wisniewski, Simon Wray, Lou Wynar, Sue Wynar, Maciej Ziebicki
Savage Worlds by Shane Lacy Hensley
© 2011 Pinnacle Entertainment Group. Savage Worlds, Deadlands: the Weird West, and all related marks and logos are trademarks of Pinnacle Entertainment Group. All rights reserved.
Produced under license by Studio 2 Publishing, Inc. The Studio 2 logo is a trademark of Studio 2 Publishing, Inc. © 2011. All rights reserved. Printed in Thailand.
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Contents

The Tombstone Epitaph 1

Out West

5

Revelation 6 America Asunder 8 The United States 8 The Confederacy 9 Disputed Territories11 The Sioux Nations14 Coyote Confederation16 Republic of Deseret17 City of Lost Angels18 Go West, Young Man!21 Saddle Sore 21 Dinero 22 Money 23 Communication 24 The Blue and the Gray25 Crime & Punishment 26 The Law26

Makin' Heroes

29

The Fairer Sex31 A Word on Slavery32 Makin' Heroes 32 New Hindrances34 New Edges37 Archetypes38 Promotion Table41

Gear and Goods

49

El Cheapo Gear49 El Cheapo Horses50 Selling Goods50 Gear Notes51 Common Items52 Cap & Ball Weapons54 Weapon Notes54 Infernal Devices55

Shootin' Irons & Other Ranged Weapons56
Melee Weapons 58 Gatling Guns 58 Ammunition58 S & R Catalog 59

Setting Rules

65

Grit 65 Fate Chips65 Gunfights67 Duels68 Tactical Dueling69 The Art of the Duel71 Gambling73 Hanging74

No Man's Land

75

What You Know75 On With the Show79 The Secret Services79 The Blessed82 Hexslingers86 Hucksters86 Poker Hands and Power Points 87 Shamans92 Mad Scientists96 Secrets of Shaolin99 Powers102 Beyond the Pale125 Unlife of a Harrowed127 Harrowed Edges130

Appendices

133

Poker Hands and Power Points 133 Available Powers by Arcane
Background134 Character Sheet135 Weird West Map 136

Index

137

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

The Tombstone Epitaph

Volume 1

Tombstone, Arizona, Sunday, June 29, 1879

No. 24

A Letter from the
Editor
Faithful Readers,
Many of you have written over the past year to express your consternation at the dis-appearance of the Epitaph's own Lacy O'Malley. Some believed I had fired Mr. O'Malley for his flights of fancy, while others wondered if perhaps one of the many horrors of which he writes had finally claimed him.
I wish to extend my gratitude to you all, however, for remaining loyal to the Epitaph, despite Mr. O'Malley's prolonged absence.
But rest assured, gentle reader, that he is safe and well. His frequent expe ditions into these wide lands lead him far from Tombstone, but he always returns with a new story with which to regale us. And so it is on this occasion.
I shall now turn the remainder of this extra edition of the Epitaph to our prodigal son, as so many of your letters have made it quite clear why I employ Mr. O'Malley rather than subject you any longer to my own pale prose.
Regards,
John Clum
Editor, Tombstone Epitaph

Greetings,
Many of you, I'm certain, wait with bated breath for my harrowing tale of the horror that managed to bring me low. Others probably salivate at the thought of the wild tale of my abduction by the Agency or its south ern counterpart, the Texas Rangers, as part of an effort to silence a free and independent press.
Although such an article would be the unvarnished truth, I must confess that it is the momentous events that loom large on the horizon of which I write today. Even as I pen these words, a new age approaches.
Peace Breaks Out
As anyone old enough to toddle around on his own must surely realize, the long Civil War that has rent our nation asunder ended nearly nine months ago. Though the peace we currently enjoy is dubbed a ceasefire by the press offices of both American nations, it is our sincere hope here at the Epitaph that the tree of liberty has drunk its fill, and the blood of patriots need no longer be shed.
As faithful readers know, we here at the Epitaph have had our eye on another struggle for some time now: the race to the coast waged by the rail companies of America. Though I have in the past cast aspersions on the methods employed by several of these companies, I must admit to a growing pitch of excitement here at the offices of the Tombstone Epitaph. For

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

The Tombstone Epitaph

Volume 1

Tombstone, Arizona, Sunday, June 29, 1879

No. 24

the very first time, travelers will enjoy the splendor and majesty of America without subjecting their bottoms to the rigors of the saddle, or their purses and persons to the danger of stagecoach robbery.
Though even now the rail companies' enforcers battle one another across the West, we can only hope this too shall pass with the end of the aptly named "Great Rail Wars." It is a tribute to the American spirit that despite the troubles and turmoil of these recent years, such a monumental--nay, Her culean--feat can still be achieved.

I am honor-bound to extend a note of caution, however, to the readers who have already begun to pack. The West remains an untamed land, and should you decide to make the journey despite my counsel, stay close to the rail lines and the roads well-traveled. Despite the age of enlightenment just around the corner, many are the nooks and crannies of the West that have yet to face the shining light of truth. Here there be shadows, Dear Friends.
And they bite.
Your Chronicler Lacy O'Malley

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Out West

The year is 1879, and the history is not our own...
After almost two decades of bitter fighting, the American Civil War has ground to a standstill. The Confederate States are still free. California has fallen into the Pacific Ocean. Rail Barons fight bloody battles to decide who the victor will be in the race for a transcontinental railroad, while a superfuel called ghost rock advances technology by unpredictable leaps and sometimes dangerous bounds. The Sioux have retaken the Dakotas and the Coyote Confederation dances the Ghost Dance on the High Plains. Some even say the dead walk among us.
We know it's a lot to take in, partner, so let's start at the beginning.

The Late Unpleasantness
The American Civil War began as it did in our own history. After more than a decade of conflict over the States' right of self-government, Abraham Lincoln's election to the American Presidency was the straw that broke the camel's back. Seven Southern states seceded to form the Confederate States of America and laid claim to federal property within the borders of the young nation.
Not even sworn in, President-elect Lincoln was faced with an immediate dilemma. Though many of the Confed erate government's claims did not present immediate crises, the question of federal forts garrisoned by Union troops would not stand unanswered for long. Lincoln ultimately decided to resupply two forts in immediate danger of capture by Confederate forces--Fort Sumter near Charleston and Fort Pickens in Pensacola Harbor. Infamously, the former would be the match that lit the powder keg.
Upon receiving news of the resupply, the Union garrison refused to surrender

in a timely fashion, hoping to hold out until help arrived. On April 12, 1861, Confederate forces attacked, and a new nation--the Confederate States of America--was baptized in blood.
A House Divided
The Battle of Fort Sumter prompted four more states to secede from the Union, or more accurately, three and a half. Virginia, like the Union itself, was divided. The residents of the western counties of the state refused to secede, instead forming the new state of West Virginia. The rest of Virginia followed the footsteps of its Southern neighbors. The Confederacy now included Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia. With Virginia's secession, Richmond was named the Confederate capital. The battle lines had been drawn, and the war was on.
For the next two years, generals and soldiers of the North and the South battled to decide the fate of two nations. The stakes were high, and the costs

5
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
higher. During the Antietam campaign, a single day's fighting inflicted over 20,000 casualties, both blue and gray.
Then something changed...for the worse. Union forces, led by Major Gene ral Gordon Meade, met and defeated General Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia at Gettysburg, Pennsylv ania. Though Meade scored a victory, he was unable to pursue the retreating rebels. A lot of folks make a lot of claims about that day. Some say Meade's uniform changed from blue to yellow, while less stable folk claim dead soldiers rose up and shot at their living comrades.

War Without End
Whatever the case, Lee's forces escaped to fight another day, and fight they did. Spotsylvania, Cold Harbor, Appomattox, on and on, over and over. While the North held the advantage in men and materiel (that's guns to you and me, amigo), the Confederacy relied on the tenacity of its troops and brilliance of its generals. Ground was bloodied, gained, and lost all across the front, but just as at Gettysburg, a decisive victory for either side seemed out of reach.
The war ground on, with no end in sight. Though battles in the West were few and far between thanks to the low concentration of forts and troops on both sides, battlefields in the East were bloodied again and again as both sides gave and gained the same ground over and over. It was so common to fight on ground once thought secured that generals and historians on both sides began to refer to battles not only by the name of the nearest town, but by how many times the blue and the gray had met on that spot. Antietam was followed by Antietam II, Antietam III, and so on. Even when new battlefields were christened, it was assumed more fighting would follow on the same ground.

Revelation
Then, in 1868, a change of a more noticeable sort came around. An earthquake the likes of which history has never seen shattered the west coast from Mexicali to Oregon. It left in its wake a labyrinth of jagged mesas towering over flooded, broken terrain. This region was quickly dubbed the "Great Maze." The ruins revealed wonders unseen prev iously, such as the California Maze Dragons, immense reptilian creatures that troll the rough channels of the Maze.

6
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Still more amazing was the discovery of what some believed to be simple coal, but was soon determined to be a new mineral altogether.
This new fundament burned about five times hotter and over a hundred times longer than coal. When consumed, it gave off a ghostly white vapor and howled like the Devil himself. The first survivors who discovered it dubbed it "ghost rock," and the name stuck.
Though it didn't happen overnight, ghost rock would change the face of the war...and the West.
The Power of Ghost Rock
Immediately after this discovery, many hopeful inventors flocked to the Maze. In months, they had perfected devices powered by steam and fueled by ghost rock. Reports of horseless car riages, ghost-rock-powered ships, and even weapons capable of spewing great gouts of flame or torrents of bullets became common.
It wasn't long before the miracle min eral was put to even more use, both in engineering and chemistry. It was discovered that ghost rock could be used in place of coke when refining steel, creating a much stronger and lighter metal with a higher melting point, called ghost steel. Likewise, refined ghost rock--usually in powdered form--could be used as both a catalyst and reagent in chemical reactions, leading to the creation of many new tonics, salves, and unguents using the powdered mineral as a key ingredient. While these elixirs remain popular today, ingesting higher concentrations of ghost rock invariably proves fatal.
Science Marches On...
...into battle! You guessed it, partner. It wasn't long before generals and other

Out West
high and mighty folks Back East noticed the array of gadgets coming out of the Maze. Confederate President Jeff Davis was the first to realize their potential, and quickly instituted a program to turn this "New Science" toward the war effort. Confederate scientists in a secret base near Roswell, New Mexico developed a whole passel of these infernal devices and shipped them Back East.
In February of 1871, General Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia attacked Union lines near Washington D.C. Lee's forces included dozens of Davis' secret weapons. Flamethrowers, steam tanks, and other, stranger weapons rained death on Union troops. The attack was devastating, so much so that Lee's forces temporarily seized the Union capital itself!
The Union Antes Up
Though it didn't take long for the Rebels' experimental devices to mal function and their supply of ghost rock to run low, the message was clear. The war would turn on a wheel powered by ghost rock.
Since the Quake of '68, ghost rock had been found all over the country, but the greatest concentration was still in the Maze. Getting the precious mineral out of the ground was one thing, but once extracted, it still needed to be transported across the contry to the factories where it could be put to use. Once back in the White House, President Grant offered the exclusive government contract for ghost rock to the first company that managed to build a transcontinental railroad. President Davis followed suit the next day.
The Civil War, bloodier than ever, continued, and the Great Rail Wars had begun.

7
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
America Asunder
Most everyone, even tenderfoots from Back East, knows America is divided in two. Even that's shy of the truth by a country mile. In fact, what used to be the United States of America and its territories is now six separate nations. Had it not been for the war, there is little doubt there would be no Sioux Nation, no Coyote Confederation, no Republic of Deseret, and certainly no Commonwealth of California.
Though Confederate President Jef ferson Davis' dying words urged peace between the Americas, and his successor Eric Michele made good by ordering

Southern forces to stand down--a gesture later returned in kind by US President Grant--the genie is out of the bottle. It is unlikely America will ever be united under a single flag again.
The United States
President Ulysses S. Grant has oc cu pied the White House since 1872. Many thought he would lose the 1876 election, as he seemed more suited to command on the battlefield than from the White House. That said, the "November Offen sives" of 1876--so called because both the Union and Confederacy staged major military campaigns prior to the elections to win votes for the incumbent presidents--and the British invasion of Detroit that followed on its heels con vinced the public that "Unconditional Surrender" Grant was their man.
Until recently, Grant's administration claimed dominion over the entire country and refused to acknowledge the existence of any other American nation. The truth, however, is that Washington exerts little to no authority over the other nations described here, and recent peace negotiations have forced him to recognize the Confederacy's legitimacy.
Now the president broods in his capital, watching his beloved nation fall apart around him. Worse, a new year and new elections approach, and Grant fears his successor will lack his firm stance in peace negotiations. Many believe Grant is merely biding his time and regrouping the Union armies for a renewed assault on the South.
The Agency
One of President Grant's most effective tools is the Agency, a shadowy organization formed in 1877. The US once relied on the Pinkerton Detective

8
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Out West

Agency for its intelligence gathering, but it gradually became clear a private company could not carry out all the duties a wartime government requires.
The men and women of the Agency now infiltrate, attack, and sabotage all perceived enemies of the state. Rumors persist that the Agency's second, less publicized function, is to investigate and quell rumors of bizarre and supernatural events. Allegedly, the Agency resorts to bribery, blackmail, and intimidation to keep such stories from spreading.
The Confederacy
After nearly twenty years, this young, hot-blooded nation finally knows peace. Though the long Civil War has had many lulls with no major battles, there has never before been a day in the CSA's

history on which it was not at war. Unfortunately, this may only be a brief respite: even as the last echoes of gunfire fade across the Mason-Dixon Line, hawks in both the North and South urge new hostilities. Worse, if Mexico secures control of the Maze, Santa Anna's forces are poised to take a crack at reclaiming Texas.
Changing of the Guard
Peace is not the only first for the CSA. Since the nation's inception, an iron fist has ruled it in the form of its first president, Jefferson Davis. Just before his term was to elapse in 1867, he instituted martial law in the Confederacy and rescinded presidential elections. This move was supported by both the Confederate Congress and the military, who felt it was unwise to allow a change

9
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

in administration during a war for the nation's very survival. Free elections were not restored until nearly a decade later in 1876, although an amendment to the Confederate Constitution would allow Davis to run for reelection. (Originally, a Confederate President was elected for a six-year term, and was ineligible for reelection.) The Whig party nominated the beloved Robert E. Lee to challenge Davis. The election in the Confederate States proper went to Lee, but highly suspect votes from the CSA's Western territories swung the election in favor of Davis.
Despite the presidential campaign's distractions, Davis apparently managed a major diplomatic coup late in '76. Presumably at Davis' request, the British finally entered the war in force, having previously limited their interference to breaking the Union Blockade of the South in 1864. Now, it seemed, they would lend arms to the Confederate cause on land. A column of British troops marched from Canada into Detroit and took it in

a day. Though the war is now over, these troops show no indication of returning to Canada, even though the Confederacy has requested their withdrawal due to Union demands.
Despite this success, many were still opposed to Davis' iron grip on the Confederacy--violently so. Davis was assassinated in late 1878, and his cabinet named Secretary of War Eric Michele acting president through a unanimous vote. With Robert E. Lee also killed in a rail car explosion some weeks before, no candidate stood to challenge Michele for the presidency in the emergency election held in early 1879. Michele was elected, and has since done his best to pursue a tenuous peace with the Confederacy's northern neighbors.
The Texas Rangers
The Texas Rangers first served as spies and scouts in the Texas Revolution of 1835­6, and in the same capacity in the Mexican War of 1846­1848. With

10
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Texas' independence from Mexico won, they continued to protect Texas against Mexican invasion, and later became the law throughout this wild young state.
Early in the Civil War, several detach ments of Texas cavalry were dispatched east. They fought in many of the most important battles, including Gettysburg. There, rumor holds, the Ranger organi zation assumed its new job of monster hunting.
Much like their northern counterparts, the Agency, the Texas Rangers are widely held to seek out and destroy the supernatural, and later quell the inev itable tall tales that spring up around such incidents.
Disputed Territories
The Disputed Territories--including Kansas and Colorado, as well as the portion of Oklahoma not claimed by the Coyote Confederation--remain a sore point in the ongoing peace negotiations between the North and South. Each nation stakes a claim on these territories, and not without cause. Even the states themselves are rife with internal conflict on whether to throw in their lot with the Union or the Confederacy.
Indeed, just as was the case in the recently ended War, these conflicts grow more heated the farther East one travels. In Colorado, most folks don't care too much. Those who do generally limit their political ardor to "loyalty rallies" (pro-Union), and "freedom marches" (pro-Confederate). Farther east, in Kansas, hardly a week goes by in which some ornery Reb doesn't take a pot shot at a Yankee (or vice versa).
As part of the terms of the recent ceasefire, both North and South agreed to pull troops out of the Disputed

Out West
Territories until such time as the region's allegiance can be decided.
Bloody Kansas
Kansas has been the site of 25 years of guerilla warfare, and shows no signs of calming down any time soon. According to the original Kansas-Nebraska act, which opened Kansas to settlement back in 1854, the people of the territory would vote on whether the territory would enter the Union as a free or slave state. One can guess what kind of conflict this caused.
For a while, Kansas had been fighting its very own Civil War, well before the Blues and Grays ran into their little problem. "Border ruffians" from Missouri filtered across the border and tried to ensure Kansas became a slave state, while abolitionists--called "Jayhawkers"--tried to counter their efforts. Neither group shied from vio lence to influence the decision of Kansas' citizens. Kansas wound up joining the Union as a free state only a few months before the Civil War broke out.
While no major military campaigns have been fought here, the long tradition of guerilla warfare and intimidation continues to this day. Diehard Rebs and staunch Unionists often live side by side in some Kansas towns. The fact that regular military units are pretty much prohibited in Kansas only allows these tensions to boil out of control, sometimes even erupting into "Territorial Wars" between towns loyal to differing nat ions. The fire of the Civil War may only be embers and coals, but Kansas is a powder keg, and the fuse is still burning.
Dodge City
Like Kansas itself, the loyalties of Dodge's citizens are torn between the North and the South. The old animosities

11
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
run as deep here as anywhere back East. While most towns in Kansas are pretty solidly blue or gray, Dodge is split right down the middle. Dodge's original charter explicitly stated that those of all political persuasions were welcome, and even made provisions for a larger police force to keep the peace.
Most folks are willing to put up with a little conflict in the name of the dollar. Buffalo hunting is big business in Kansas, and Dodge has become quite the commercial hub. Thanks to cattle plagues elsewhere in the country, buffalo meat has become a valuable commodity, and a hunter can bring home as much as $30--in just about any currency he can name--for a single buffalo. Local slaughter houses usually buy the meat and hide for shipment to points East.
The rest of Dodge's economy--other than the money to be made by rail pas sengers who spend the night in one of the city's hotels or houses of ill-repute-- is based on serving buffalo hunters. Saloons, dance halls, and supply stores are thick on the ground, and you can't take more than a few steps without tripping over a snakeoil salesman or grifter.
Naturally, all the booze and guns-- combined with Kansas' seemingly inevitable inclination toward political divisiveness--leads to a lot of folks coming down with terminal cases of lead poisoning. A couple years back, the Town Council had enough, and passed a law that required anyone entering the town to come to Marshal Larry Deger's office to check his guns.
Needless to say, this didn't go over well with the rowdier elements of society, but the law's chief proponent--Deputy Wyatt Earp--isn't one to be trifled with. More than a few buffalo hunters who "forget" to check their rifles wake in a cell with an "earp"--a nice shiny new

bruise delivered by the barrel of Earp's pistol.
Of course, the day anything's made illegal is the night a lively black market springs up. In this case, back alley trade in weapon claim slips is common. Combined with the fact that Dodge City is served by two major rail lines--Black River and Union Blue--and is as far East as you can go without heavy border patrols, this lively underground makes Dodge an attractive stopover point for spies bound for points both North and South. All of this adds up to a rowdy nightlife in the boomtown.
Oklahoma
Oklahoma, at least as far as its white inhabitants are concerned, is pretty firmly Confederate. In loyalty, as in so many things, where Texas goes, so goes Oklahoma. That said, only a very small part of Oklahoma can properly be considered a territory anymore, either of the Union or Confederacy. Most of it is controlled by the Coyote Confederation, and the small part that isn't is subject to frequent and violent Indian raids.
In some areas, the more zealous tribes of the new Indian nation have even taken to forcing the few remaining white settlers onto smaller and smaller plots of land as an imprisoned population. Usually, they are allowed to live in one of the few self-sufficient townships, though the more brutal tribes require these poor folks to live according to the Old Ways. The latter groups usually don't last long, as they're ill-prepared for the hardships of life on the open plain, and the former don't exactly have it easy.
Either way, people here are not allowed to travel without an Indian war party escort, and getting the Coyote Confederation to provide one is about as much fun as pulling teeth. What's

12
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

more, the tribes have long since severed telegraph and rail lines in and out of Oklahoma, so they maintain complete control over who and what passes through their domain.
While the Union professes sympathy for the Confederate population in Oklahoma, it is unwilling to allow the Confederacy to break the terms of the ceasefire in order to send in troops to defend the settlers. Further, the Union is unwilling to cede Oklahoma without similar concessions from the Confederacy, specifically Colorado or Kansas. Since most of the territory belongs to the Coyote by treaty, the Confederacy is loathe to trade the larger and more valuable Disputed Territories to the Union for a small slice of Oklahoma.
While the diplomats wrangle, the situation in Oklahoma grows steadily worse.
Siege Mentality
Naturally enough, the more extreme Coyote tribes mentioned above are the cause of a great deal of distrust and hatred between white settlers and the Coyote Confederation as a whole. Many settlers assume all the tribes of the Coyote are looking to subjugate them, so they take up arms in their own defense. The peaceable tribes of the Coyote, meanwhile, see white settlers attacking any of their people who approach on sight, which in turn spurs the more violent Coyote tribes to even worse abuses.
Many of the supposedly subjugated towns are actually quite well-armed, having temporarily fought off the initial Coyote attacks. They quickly threw up stockade walls to defend themselves and only open their doors to refugees from other towns destroyed by the Coyote.

Out West
Most of these towns are desperate for relief, as both ammunition and food are running low. Some have held out for as long as two years. Unfortunately for them, the state of peace negotiations between North and South means any help from Confederate troops will likely be funeral services performed by the chaplain corps.
Colorado
Both the Union and Confederacy are quick to claim Colorado, and neither seems willing to negotiate the point. In fact, both nations count Colorado as a state, pretty much regardless of Colorado's thoughts on the matter. Being so far West, most folks in Colorado don't care too much which flag they salute, but there are always a few bad apples to spoil any bunch.
Unlike Kansas and Oklahoma, Colorado's agriculture isn't its main attraction for the squabbling nations. Colorado's economic lifeblood is gold

13
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
and silver, along with a few big cattle ranches scattered about the state.
No major battles and precious few skirmishes were fought in Colorado in the long War Between the States, but that doesn't mean it is untouched by violence. The Battle of the Cauldron, the biggest engagement to date in the Great Rail Wars, hit in late 1876. All six of the competing Rail Barons pitched in. Some had legitimate interests in the area, while others simply assumed the rest of the Rail Barons were up to something. The Cauldron wasn't an ongoing battle as generals Back East might understand it, but a series of small, bloody skirmishes waged over the course of a month. The campaign ended abruptly as the winter months closed in.
Ultimately, Union Blue and DenverPacific held the field, but the campaign had cost a total of just over 300 lives, and left nearly 10 times that amount crippled. Further, more than half a million dollars worth of rolling stock belonging to the various rail companies was destroyed. To this day, every spring sees renewed hostilities in Colorado--every summer long and costly battles, every fall a stalemate.
The Queen of the West
As the saying goes, "all rails lead west to Denver." The Queen City of the Desert lies nestled in a valley in the foothills of the Front Range of the Rockies. Folks claim it's the largest city between Dodge and the City of Lost Angels, and between Texas and Seattle, making it the perfect place to run a rail to.
The Denver-Pacific--ostensibly neutral in the Rail Wars as its owners claim no interest in the government contracts for ghost rock shipping--has done just that, and connects with three of the major lines in the Disputed Lands. This means

folks can hop a train Back East, ride it to somewhere in the Disputed Lands, then hop a DP line to Denver. The DP reaches quite a ways west as well, but service is sporadic.
Still, if a cowpoke doesn't feel like running all the way down to Tombstone to take the Ghost Trail to the Great Maze, going through Denver is the next best bet. This route is pretty much closed in the winter, though. In the pass through the Rockies, there's often snow even in the height of summer. If you try making your way through here around Yuletide, you'd better ask ol' Saint Nick for a Christmas miracle, or you'll be frozen solid for the New Year.
The best-known citizen of Denver is Mayor Caleb Hornsby. Elected by the city's residents, he refuses to answer to either of the provisional state gov ernm ents appointed by the North or South. Hornsby (Ol' Caleb to the locals) has proven himself extremely popular with the citizens of Denver. Few of his laws, even the one against carrying guns within city limits, are ever challenged.
The Sioux Nations
Perhaps the folks that benefited the most from the Civil War are the Sioux. As the Union Army's attention remains focused south, it has little manpower to patrol the Dakota Territory effectively and control its red neighbors within. Even with the war over, most within the US government and military realize that going to war with the Sioux over the Dakota Territory--however rich with ghost rock it may be--would be the military equivalent of suicide.
Sitting Bull & Custer
The leader, or hunkpapa wicasa, of the Sioux is Sitting Bull, a wily old Indian

14
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Out West

chief who is far more belligerent than the rest of the wicasas (a council of elder chiefs, medicine men, and revered warriors). It was Sitting Bull who defeated General George Armstrong Custer at the Battle of the Little Bighorn. Custer managed to survive and escape the debacle, only to later be court-martialed. Since then, the Union affords the Sioux a little more respect.
Unfortunately, the headstrong Custer has not forgiven the Sioux for his humiliating defeat and loss of rank. He pieced together a rag-tag army of claim jumpers, troublemakers, and freebooters, and threatens to invade the Dakotas. Custer is acting without authority from Washington, but the Sioux don't see it that way. Since he still wears the rank of a US Army officer on his collar, to them, he is a US army officer.
Deadwood
When ghost rock was discovered in the sacred Black Hills of the Sioux Nations, thousands of white prospectors

violated the Indians' borders in search of riches. The Sioux took up their weapons to protect their territory and violent clashes were frequent. This caused so much trouble, the wicasas finally allowed the whites to mine in the Black Hills, but only if they would not stray from designated areas, pay a fee to the Sioux, and live in the treaty city of Deadwood.
Those who stray outside these bound aries are considered trespassers and subject to Sioux law. In the case of minor infractions--a couple of prospectors wand ering a few hundred yards "off the reservation"--the Sioux usually hog-tie the offenders and drop them off at the edge of town. More severe incursions or repeat offenders are usually punished with a slow and painful death, with the bodies deposited somewhere other would-be prospectors are certain to find them.
Unfortunately, the vengeful Custer and the greedy miners of Deadwood constantly violate the treaty. It seems to be only a matter of time before such an

15
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
incident sets off a war between the Sioux and every white man who sets foot in the Dakota Territory.
The Old Ways
Outnumbered though they are, the isolated whites of the area have one important advantage--or so they think. The wicasas claim that a great change came over the land about fifteen years ago, that evil spirits returned to the world to punish them for adopting some of the "polluted white man's evils," such as fire water and guns. This philosophy eventually came to mean the Sioux were not to use any sort of technological dev ice; the wicasas told them to return to the "Old Ways," and the movement was born.
Many young braves feel the Old Ways movement is foolish, and attacking Gatling guns and cannons with arrows and tomahawks is suicide. The wicasas forbid such talk, but rumors persist of a secret rebellion calling itself the "Order of the Raven." The Ravenites, it is said, use the white man's tools against him in secret, despite the condemnation of the elders.
The wicasas feel this behavior poisons the Sioux in the eyes of their gods, and put to death any young brave found with the hidden tattoo that marks him as a Ravenite.
Coyote Confederation
Down south, in what used to be "Indian Territory," a coalition of Cherokee, Comanche, Creek, Seminole, Kiowa, Chickasaw, and Choctaw Indians saw the success of the Sioux and, longing for a similar degree of independence, decided to follow suit. This proud group of tribes formed themselves into a new nation,

called the Coyote Confederation. The Confederation's leader is an enigmatic figure known only as "Coyote."
Coyote remains cloaked and cowled even among his own people, so it's entirely likely one of the tribes' true leaders acts as Coyote. Quanah Parker and Satanta are likely candidates, though one of their trusted medicine men might be under the hood as well. In fact, it's probably not the same Indian from day to day, since Coyote has often been reported hundreds of miles from his last known location in the space of as little as an hour!
In any case, Coyote seems wiser than the sometimes hot-headed Sioux leader ship, but doesn't take an active hand in the Confederation's affairs. Instead, he leaves each tribe largely to its own devices. Thanks to the lack of a single, strong leader, some braves carry on the age-old tradition of raiding enemy set tlem ents--usually white folks--a habit that brings them in frequent conflict with settlers in the Disputed Territories.
Brothers in Arms
The Coyotes rarely raid into the Confederacy, or even towns in the Disputed Territories sympathetic to the Southern cause. It's basically an open secret that the Coyote Confederation abides by some kind of agreement with the Confederacy, though with Michele's succession of Davis as president, raids into Confederate territory are on the upswing. Oklahoma, it seems, was never included in this tacit agreement, as raids on the small part of Oklahoma not considered Indian Territory were frequent even before the Civil War ended. Now that the Confederacy has pulled its troops out of Oklahoma entirely, many believe the Coyote Confederation plans to expand its borders to include all of Oklahoma.

16
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Republic of Deseret
Mormons have long been the odd men out where Christianity is concerned. Their version of the faith didn't often sit well with their neighbors Back East. Eventually, things got so bad the selfproclaimed Latter Day Saints packed up and headed west. There, they settled on a desolate parcel of land called Utah, and their new leader and prophet Brigham Young founded Salt Lake City in 1847.
President Brigham Young
Young was a clever man, and he orchestrated Utah's recognition as a territory rather quickly. The Mormons enjoyed isolation, anonymity, and even their own laws until the Gold Rush of '49. Though the Saints prospered financially as Salt Lake City became a waystation for thousands of miners headed west, the new Gentiles didn't always live according to Mormon law. Once again, the Mormons found themselves battling for their way of life, which included polygamy--a practice the rest of the country wouldn't tolerate.
The Saints muddled along until 1866. By then, with no end in sight for the Civil War and several unfortunate conflicts with Gentiles (including the Union army) under their belts, Brigham Young declared the Mormons would rule themselves until such time as the government had the resources to properly address the Saints' concerns and complaints. The new nation was named Deseret, and encompasses all of the territory known to Gentiles as Utah.
The City o' Gloom
Salt Lake City is often called the City o' Gloom. This title is not some satirical
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
comment on the Mormon lifestyle, but rather recognition of the city's incredible factories.
These factories build ghost-rockpowered devices of steam and steel. The constant cloud of ghost rock soot that hangs in the air and permeates certain sections of the city gives it its less than cheerful moniker.
Worse still is the Junkyard, the maze of streets, overhanging pipes, and gantries built up in and around Darius Hellstromme's numerous factories. The tangled maze overhead is called the Steel Sky, and pretty much blots out the sun on even cloudless days. Squeezed smack dab between Salt Lake City proper and the nearby Wasatch Mountains, the Junkyard isn't a place proper Mormons go. It's left to the Gentiles--and the bloodthirsty gangs, desperate fugitives, and darker things that run it.
City of Lost Angels
The last stop on our tour takes us back to the start of it all, the Great Maze.
After the Great Quake of '68, one group of survivors was led to shore by the Reverend Ezekiah Grimme. He provided the large band of refugees both food and fresh water during their arduous escape, and eventually came to call his followers the Lost Angels. The group founded a city where they came ashore, and Grimme named it for his beloved flock--the City of Lost Angels was born.
Reverend Grimme
Since then, Reverend Grimme's become a bit more stern. He forced the city's co-founders to build the streets

in a pattern of concentric circles with the Church of Lost Angels' cathedral at the center of it all. He claims he was inspired by a divine dream to create this "Celestial City."
It wasn't long before the city became the center of the ghost rock trade between the isolated boomtowns of the Maze and the rest of the world, a fact that has escaped neither Grimme himself nor the Rail Barons. Despite the rough-andtumble types that flooded in, Grimme maintained control for one simple reason--food is incredibly scarce in the Maze. The high desert on the landward side of the city is arid and poorly suited for crops, and the few herds anyone has tried to raise are inevitably ravaged by disease. Starvation is a very real threat in the Maze--or would be if not for Reverend Grimme.
Every Sunday following his weekly sermon, those who attend services may join the congregation in a great feast. Fruit, vegetables, and especially meat are free for the taking. Fruits and vegetables are hard to come by in the city, and meat nearly impossible, but Grimme's feasts never seem to lack second helpings.
In any other city, Grimme's feasts would make him a popular man. In the Maze, where a loaf of bread can cost as much as a man makes in a week, Grimme is seen as just a step below the Almighty Himself.
The Edict of '77
Reverend Grimme believes a transcontinental railroad will only bring graft and corruption to his city. Outsiders often feel he is afraid a rail line would make food more plentiful, and thus shake his grip on power. Grimme, however, preaches his point of view at his services every week, so the Lost Angels faithful are firmly in his camp.

18
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

He railed against the coming of the railroads for years, but finally the iron horses must have come too close. In 1877, Grimme--long the de facto ruler of the city--took official control and declared the City of Lost Angels a sovereign state. He apparently figured if the Vatican could do it, so could he.
In his now-famous Edict of '77, he proclaimed that only true believers in the Church of Lost Angels could per manently reside in the city (though thousands of hopefuls live in the "tent city" outside). Those who do not

Out West
recognize the church's sovereignty are not only exiled, but considered enemies of the state as well.
As such, pretty much everyone in the city pays at least lip service to the church. Even visitors to the city--who are grudgingly allowed--are expected to toe the line, inasmuch as they are not allowed to practice their own faith within city walls, nor speak out against the Church or the city's great benefactor.
Grimme's law is enforced by his own elite, the Guardian Angels. These true believers always carry the word of

19
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Grimme for potential converts, and a six-gun for troublemakers.
Grimme's Crusade
Needless to say, no one outside the city of Lost Angels much liked seeing one man control a good chunk of the world's supply of ghost rock.
The governments of the USA, CSA, Republic of Deseret, and a host of other nations lost no time condemning Grimme's move and calling him a despot, and the list of groups seeking the end of the reverend's influence in the city has grown over the intervening years.
Even the zealous Grimme knows he can't take on the entire world. To convince folks the Church of Lost Angels is acting in everyone's best interest, he sends small bands of missionaries out across the West to proselytize and recruit new followers.
Of course, the railroads don't take kindly to the folks standing in the way of their quest for victory in the Rail Wars, and their armed gangs often attack

Lost Angels on sight. For their part, the Angels usually give as good as they get. After all, it's better to have the Word of God and a shotgun at your side than just the Word of God.
If any Rail Baron attempts a final push into the City of Lost Angels, it'll touch off a conflict more vicious and bloody than the Rail Wars themselves.
The Commonwealth of California
The City of Lost Angels is effectively the capital of the Commonwealth of California, formed following a referendum by California's citizens to remain independent from both the United and Confederate States. That said, no real efforts have been made to form a government for this would-be nation, and the territory remains as chaotic as ever. The big cities--Lost Angels and Shan Fan--more or less ignore each other, while the smaller boomtowns scattered across the mesas rely on them for their lines of supply.

20
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

The Commonwealth of California is likely to be a stillborn nation unless one of the parties currently struggling for control--be it Grimme, either of the Americas, Santa Anna's Mexicans, one of the Rail Barons, or someone else entirely--can muster enough force to bring the varied communities of the Great Maze to heel.
Go West, Young Man!
Now that we've covered current events, it's time for a little practical knowledge. The new frontier is a strange and dangerous place, unforgiving for the tenderfoot. Before you wander out into the wilds, you have to know the best way to get around in the West, and how to pay your way as you go.
Forget the latter, and you'll need to know how to avoid the law. Forget that, and you'll need to know how to wire home for Momma.
Getting Around
If you've decided to head on out West, you'll first need to pick a means of locomotion.
Remember that the civilized world ends just west of the Mississippi. After that, you hit the Disputed Territories, the Sioux Nations, or the Coyote Confederation. Or Texas, Lord help you. Tread cautiously, and keep a six-shooter handy in case local disputes reach the blood-letting stage while you're passing through.
Scared yet? Then you're wiser than most. But if your heart's still set on making the journey, you can get around by hoof or rail. Don't bother with the heel-toe express--the distances are just too great.

Out West
Saddle Sore
We aren't kidding about the dis comfort of long-distance riding, partner. Do your hind end a favor and buy a ticket.
If you're dead set on hitting the trail in your own saddle, you'll need to make a Riding roll (­2) each week to account for all the sore muscles and bruises you're going to rack up. Failure means you gain a level of Fatigue.
Recovery requires 1d4 days of rest--preferably in a bath house where you can soak your brand-new aches and pains--which removes all Fatigue levels.
Hoofing It
Whether you choose to ride in your own saddle alongside your compadres, or in a spiffy new Concord stagecoach, hoofing it across the West is basically a bad idea for anything but the shortest distances. The ride is long, hard, and uncomfortable, and you're likely to be chased by angry Indians, road agents, or the biggest and nastiest critters you've ever tangled with.
For longer distances, your best bet is a stage. The drivers stick to well-known routes (often likely places for ambush, by the way), and change horses every 15 miles or so to keep up a steady pace. Most reputable stagecoach lines average about

21
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
100 miles a day, though less well-known ones realistically average about 70.
Stagecoaches are more comfortable than riding your own animal. The coaches hang by leather straps to take away some of the bounce on rough trails, but you're still looking at a week sitting on plush pillows after a few days' ride. Concords, by far the most popular model, fit nine in the passenger compartment and as many as can hold on up top. Six horses is typical for a stage, though stages on shorter routes often use only four.
Of course, if you're the kind of cowpoke who calls his horse "Silver," you probably aren't interested in taking the stage and leaving your horse behind. The ride's long, and even experienced trail hands can get a bit saddle sore if they push too far. In any event, riders generally average about 40 miles per day.
Riding the Rails
Taking a rail line west is a good deal safer and faster than a stage or a horse, but even this can be dangerous.
Bandits are common along rail lines. Most are two-bit thugs, easily handled by the train's guards. A few are a little more devious. The Wichita Witches, an elite posse of female gun hands who work for Black River, have been known to dynamite trestles and send entire trainloads of honest folks to their doom just to inconvenience the other Rail Barons.
All the big companies employ armed guards on board to deal with trouble. Trains carrying payroll or gold shipments usually have a contingent of soldiers or hired guns. Passenger trains are more likely to have troubleshooters dressed as ordinary folk.
Bandits, however, aren't the biggest worry when you ride the rails in the

West. Not by a long shot, compadre! That dubious distinction belongs to the rail companies themselves. Regardless of which rail company you choose to carry you west, remember that you're planting your keister smack in the middle of the bloody Great Rail Wars when you board that train. The stakes couldn't be higher for these companies, and the Rail Barons play for keeps!
The only way around this is to hop lines from one smaller company to another, but even minor lines aren't immune to attacks from rival lines. Further, it's much more expensive to buy passage piecemeal like this, and there are some stretches of land (such as the Sioux Nations) that only the major lines service.
Assuming your journey proceeds unm olested, a train usually covers about 250 miles a day, but remember it can only take you as far as a railhead. To reach many of the more remote communities in the West, you'll have to get off at the nearest railhead and hop a stage or ride the rest of the way.
Dinero
Only a fool or a madman ventures out into the Weird West without proper survival gear. More often than not, "proper survival gear" includes a shootin' iron along with the usual equipment. Of course, if you're going to buy any of that gear, you're going to need a way to pay for it.
Most merchants out West don't like paper money, since folks from both sides of the Mason-Dixon Line are liable to shop at their establishments. If a shop does take paper, it probably charges a 10­20% "exchange tax."
Metal is always a safe bet. Both the Union and the Confederacy still issue

22
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

coins minted from precious metals (in various denominations, as shown in the sidebar), which can be spent on either side of the Mason-Dixon Line. Even if a particularly loyal businessman won't accept paper currency from the "other" America, he'll usually accept hard coin wherever it's from for the value of the metal used in its minting.
Other Currency
There are a few more types of money floating around the Weird Western economy.
Most Indian tribes prefer barter, but some accept coins or paper at about a quarter its printed value. Tribes of the Coyote Confederation honor Confederate scrip at half its value.
Deseret also prints its own money, called "bank notes." To begin with, there were some problems with so-called "Mormon money," and a lot of people lost their shirts (and pants and shoes). The problem seems to have been resolved since the foundation of Deseret, however.
Despite what the bible says about the love of money being the root of all evil, after the Edict of '77, even Grimme created his own currency and decreed that only church scrip could be used within the bounds of the City of Lost Angels. Now Grimme is a preacher, not a printer, so this stuff is pretty cheaply made and tends to smudge if it gets wet. Keep church scrip in your sweaty paws for too long and you'll find the red ink rubs right off on your hand, leaving suspicious-looking stains on your skin. This tendency has given Grimme's currency its other name--blood money-- and the stuff is rarely accepted outside the city itself.

Out West
Rocks for Cash
Although merchants in the Maze continue to accept paper or coin like just about everyone else, outside of the City of Lost Angels, ghost rock is becoming a popular form of currency, and folks often pay for goods and services with carefully measured chunks of the sub stance.
Gold, silver, and other precious metals are used in the same way in places where such minerals are abundant and prospectors gather. Precious metals can often be spent in frontier towns, though most boomtowns also have an assay office where miners can exchange their finds for currency...for a price.

Money

Coin
Gold Eagle Half Eagle Quarter Eagle Silver Dollar Half Dollar
Dime Half Dime Copper Cent

Value
$10 $5 $2.50 $1 50¢ 10¢ 5¢ 1¢

23
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Communication
Time was, communication was restric ted to the speed of the fastest horse. Nothing stays the same for long, it seems. As people travel quicker, so com munic ation becomes easier, and new inventions and incredible new technolo gies allow folks to converse faster than ever before.
A few years back, a dude named Bell invented an electrical speech machine that lets folks talk to each other over long distances, with voices and everything. Like most of the other newfangled gadgets those scientist types keep turning out, these machines aren't in common use Back East yet. Out West, they're practically unheard of.
Weird inventions aside, there are basically three ways to communicate over long distances in the Weird West-- telegraph, government mail, and the Pony Express. Let's take a look at each in turn.

Telegraph
The telegraph is a staple in Western settlements of any size. Thanks to this device, it's now practical for folks to communicate over long distances in a timely fashion. For the first time, a man can write an article in Denver and have it printed Back East the same day. That said, this service isn't cheap--a telegram costs about 5¢ per word.
Telegraphs aren't problem-free either. Telegraph offices in both the North and the South are actually forbidden by law to transmit messages over the border, except for a select few offices operated by the military. All of these are Back East. You can still get a message through by wiring someone in the Disputed Lands, but these "black market" telegraphers charge triple the normal price, or more.
Even when messages do get through, they are frequently garbled, misinterpreted, or just plain wrong. Outlandish theories abound on the

24
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

unreliable nature of the telegraph, but most put it down to line sabotage and operator error--either intentional or otherwise.
Government Mail
Both the United and Confederate States run national mail services, though neither delivers over the Mason-Dixon Line. That said, both nations make claim to the Disputed Territories, so you can get a letter delivered anywhere in the West. That said, expect to pay double the usual postage or so, and don't write anything private--even after the truce the respective militaries generally open and read any letter to be delivered care of the rival nation's postal service.
Assuming you pony up the cash, neither rain, sleet, nor gloom of night keep the mailmen from their appointed rounds. It's usually the highwaymen, or more specifically the bullets, that prove a problem. Mail robbery is on the rise. You may only send a letter to Aunt Minnie in Denver, but the bandits who sort through the mail bag don't usually bother delivering the leftovers once they've pulled out the currency.
Postal rates vary based on the weight of the package, but the cost of a single page letter usually hovers around 2­3¢.
The Pony Express
Much more reliable than the CS or US Mail is the Pony Express. Its riders--all orphans or single men and women--are paid better, and are often well-suited to fighting off or fleeing from highwaymen and other varmints. It's a fair sight more expensive than the mail services, but perfect for vital deliveries.
Cost of delivery is $1 per ½ ounce (anything less than ½ ounce is charged the minimum rate of $1).

Out West
The Blue and the Gray
Let's take a look at the regular army units a cowpoke is likely to run into out West. Most of the units past the Mississippi are cavalry forces, though there are a few infantry regiments stationed at key points along the Disputed Territories. Both the North and the South use the same organization and ranks (see Rank Hath Its Privileges on page 43).
Other than blue and gray uniforms respectively, Union and Confederate forces are pretty much identical.
The basic rank is private: your ordin ary, ground-pounding grunt. Ninety-five privates (plus NCOs and officers) officially make up a company, though a company very rarely achieves full strength, and it is usually led by a captain.
Ten companies, usually designated A­J, form a regiment under the command of a lieutenant colonel. Regiments on both sides are designated by a number and their state of origin: 18th Virginia Infantry Regiment, for example.
Three or four regiments make up a brigade, under the command of a brigadier general. Union brigades are designated by number within their division (1st, 2nd, etc.); Confederate brigades are identified by their com mander's surname (Garnett's Brigade, for instance).
Three or four brigades form a division, usually led by a major general. Union divisions are numbered within their corps (1st, 2nd, etc.); Confederate divisions, too, are identified by commander's surname (e.g., Pickett's Division).

25
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

Crime & Punishment
Here are a few of the more common offenses in the West and the penalties prescribed by law. Don't forget about those hanging judges, though...

Offense
Horse Thieving Rustling Murder Rape Attempted Murder Bank Robbery
Train Robbery
Theft from a Widow Theft from some- one of authority Grand Larceny (Stealing $300 or more in goods other than horses or cattle) Theft of less than $300 Drunk in public
Disorderly Carrying a weapon in a no-weapon zone

Sentence
Hanging Hanging Hanging Hanging 20 years or more 20 years or more 20 years or more 20 years or more 5 years or more 5 years or more
1 week to 1 year
Overnight and $10 fine
$10 fine Confiscation and $10 fine

Yep, you guessed it, hombre, three or four divisions make up a corps, commanded by a lieutenant general. Union corps are designated by number within their army (1st, 2nd, etc.); Confederate corps are designated by surname.
Finally, three or four corps make up an army, almost always under the command of a full general. Union armies are named for major rivers in their area of operation (the Army of the Potomac). Confederate armies are named after the state they are headquartered in (the Army of Northern Virginia).
The Law
Just in case you tenderfoots think the army isn't enough to protect you from the big bad bandits of the Weird West, you can get the law on 'em. There are three tiers of law in the West: town marshals, county sheriffs, and US marshals and Texas Rangers. Except for those last two, things work pretty much the same in the North and South, since it's all the West. We'll cover the differences between marshals and Rangers below.
Town Marshals
At the lowest level is the town marshal. Most large towns have one, as do a few smaller ones with delusions of grandeur--or a lot of problems. Marshals are usually elected by the locals, though many towns allow the mayor or a town council to appoint them instead.
Town marshals and their deputies have jurisdiction within town limits, though most county courts uphold their right to chase fleeing criminals short distances beyond town boundaries. Hell, a few hanging judges have been known to ignore jurisdictional questions in favor of a guilty verdict, especially if

26
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

that verdict comes with the promise of a hemp necktie for the accused. That said, most judges are a bit more sensible on the matter, even in the West.
The problem is that most troublemakers know just how little authority a town marshal has outside of his own little slice of the frontier. These canny outlaws commit a crime and then high-tail it for the hills, where the marshal has no official reach. That said, most town marshals ignore this technicality when in hot pursuit, and the courts usually back them up.
County Sheriffs
A step above a town marshal is the county sheriff and any deputies he's appointed. These men and women are the law throughout the county.
Western lawmen are usually a tough and independent breed, and this stubborn streak often leads to a headbutting contest when a sheriff rides into an ornery marshal's town. Strictly speaking, the sheriff holds all the cards, but that doesn't mean a marshal might not win an occasional hand.
Sheriffs are always chosen by popular election. Famous gunmen--good and bad--are often elected on the strength of their reputations, and sometimes take the post just to justify any killing they might have to do in or around a town. All so-called "law dogs" must still prove self-defense after a fatal shooting, however. Most abusive lawmen are eventually dismissed by the state or territorial government. That is, assuming there is no graft or corruption involved.
US Marshals & Texas Rangers
In Union states and territories, US marshals have ultimate authority over the law. They can hire deputy US

Out West
marshals, authorize posses, cross state and territorial lines, and even call on county sheriffs and town marshals if need be.
Most are based in the largest cities of the state or territory they're stationed in, although some work out of district offices scattered in important areas elsewhere. When they leave their offices, it's usually because they've been called on by a smaller town or are on the trail of some vicious desperado.
Despite the resources at their disposal, most US marshals prefer to work alone, generally because a marshal needs to be able to operate discreetly, slipping into towns without alerting his quarry. Inexperienced deputies with loud feet and loose lips can do more harm than good, the kind of harm that adds up to an unmarked grave in Boot Hill.
The Confederacy relies on the military or territorial rangers to do its interstate policing in the West. Regiments scattered throughout rebel states and territories always have jurisdiction over local town marshals and county sheriffs.
The South's elite are the Texas Rangers. These surly fellows fought as regulars in the early years of the war, but they were later detached from the regular military to serve the Confederacy as mounted police officers. They continue to fulfill that duty in the South today, though rumors persist of more secretive duties.
"The Fourth Level"
The Agency and the Rangers are the constant targets of conspiracy theorists and tellers of tall tales peddling stories of a secret fourth level of the law in both North and South that operates under its own authority, and with its own agenda.
These wild-eyed paranoids believe the Agency and the Rangers care nothing for the rights of the common man, and will

27
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

do as they please in the interests of their respective countries' "national security," up to and including the incarceration of innocents, blackmail, and allegedly even murder.
Judges and Courts
Every state county has its own judge, and the state usually has some sort of superior court for appeals or matters of state jurisdiction.
In the territories, the men who interpret the law are called circuit judges. Rather

than holding court in a single place, they make a circuit through the towns of a territory, which can mean a long spell in jail if you're awaiting trial in some remote spot.
There just aren't enough judges to maintain permanent courts out West. This means a desperado might wait anywhere from two to 10 weeks for a fair and speedy trial. Worse, if the judge gets bushwhacked making his rounds, the accused waits even longer for the state to appoint a replacement!

28
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Makin' Heroes

Strap on your six-guns and saddle up, amigo. It's time to make your salty gunslinger, mysterious huckster, or savage brave.
Fortunately, making characters for Deadlands: The Weird West is as easy as creating characters for any SAVAGE WORLDS game. The hardest part is choosing what kind of hombre you want to play, because the Wild West is chock-full of strange and interesting types.

People from all walks of life find their way to the Weird West, from across the globe in search of fame or fortune. Your hero can be any kind of person you can imagine. Here are some common character types found in the Weird West, just to get you thinking.
Blessed: Whether a nun, rabbi, or chosen slayer, you are one of humanity's most powerful weapons against the forces of darkness.
Bounty Hunter: This gun's for hire. Some folks can evade justice for an awful long time in the lawless frontier towns of the West. Fortunately, you make your grubstake by hunting these varmints down and bringing `em in...dead or alive.
Common Folk: Not everyone is a hard-bitten gunslinger, war-weary sol dier, or mysterious huckster. You are an ordinary man or woman--perhaps a craftsman, farmer, or trader--who traveled west seeking a new life and a fresh start. Unfortunately, folks like you are often preyed upon by the horrors and outlaws of the Weird West, so you're sometimes forced to pick up a gun to survive.
Deserter: You've seen your fair share of death and misery, and won't be a

party to it anymore. Or maybe you'd rather just shoot the bad folks, rather than the ones who wear a particular uniform. Regardless, you were branded a coward and traitor by the military you left behind, and are likely to be executed if ever captured by your former service.
Drifter: You make a living on odd jobs; more often than not, these odd jobs involve a smoking gun. Good thing you know how to handle one. In any case, you've never put down roots in the West, but there isn't much for you Back East.
Escort: Most often of the feminine persuasion, these "soiled doves" sometimes work a single saloon, and sometimes travel from town to town plying their trade. Though you seem innocent enough, you can hold your own in the roughest boomtowns in the West. With the upswing in independent, prosperous women over the last decade, male escorts have begun to pop up in bigger cities.
Explorer: You're always looking over the next horizon in search of something new. Though you realize the vast virgin territories of yesteryear are gone forever, you also know that many wonders--and horrors--of the West have yet to be uncovered.

29
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Grifter: You ply your dishonest trade to make a quick buck on the frontier. You're a snakeoil salesman, a con man who sells worthless elixirs of flavored water and extracts from dubious roots and herbs. Perhaps you search for real "miracle cures," and finance your quest with ill-gotten gains.
Hucksters: You plumb Hoyle's Book of Games for the arcane secrets encoded therein. Some say that within this cryptic text are hidden messages detailing ancient incantations and rituals of the black arts. Others believe hucksters are fakes and frauds. Most have never even heard of these secretive sorcerers. Your spiritual brethren, hexslingers, ply their mystical trade with a double-action pistol rather than a deck of cards.
Immigrant: Chinese or Mexican, European or African, you are a stranger in a weird land. You bring new and unusual customs to this land of opp or tunity, which sometimes leads to your persecution.
Indian Brave: The long Civil War means that neither the USA nor CSA has the will or manpower to subjugate the Sioux Nations or the Coyote Confederation. You are fiercely loyal to your tribe, and once spent your time hunting or patrolling tribal borders. Some braves learn the ways of the white man, while others take up the Old Ways vow.
Indian Shaman: Shamans have many roles in Indian culture, whether serving the spiritual needs of your people, healing and guarding against sickness, or leading in war. It is rare that one shaman fills all these roles for a single tribe, as the duties are usually divided among shamans with specific expertise. Regardless, all understand the importance of fighting the manitous.
Law Dog: The West is a wild frontier, with wilder outlaws. It's up to you--
30

whether you're a town marshal, county sheriff, or even federal marshal or Texas Ranger--to keep a lid on the worst of them.
Mad Scientist: You use ghost rock to create infernal devices of steam and steel. Some believe in your genius, others think you mad. Alchemists are mad scientists' chemical cousins, investing their effort in potions bestowing seemingly magical benefits.
Muckraker: You believe in reporting the truth above all else, no matter who it offends. Yellow journalism is your stock in trade, and you hope to do a little good by lifting the scales from America's eyes. Unfortunately, the only organization willing to publish your sometimes wild stories is the Tombstone Epitaph, a notori ously sensational newspaper. The "truth" sometimes requires embellishment to appeal to the skeptical masses. The Epitaph also publishes photographs shot with the incredible Epitaph camera. This camera enables photographers to record images of objects in motion, a feat impossible with mundane cameras. This very success leads many to doubt the authenticity of such photographs, claiming them to be impossible fakes.
Outlaw: Whether a ruthless bank robber, cold-blooded killer, or innocent fugitive on the run, you have a price on your head and the law on your tail. Some outlaws evade pursuit and build new lives, but some crimes are so heinous that the Union, Confederacy, and everyone in between wants to see the outlaw hanged.
Prospector: You know there's gold in them thar hills--not to mention coal, silver, ghost rock, and a host of other valuable fundaments. You've spent your life digging for it, and you spend what little you find on wine, women, and song. Only occasionally do prospectors actually strike it rich. A few hunt even more fantastic treasures, though they

Makin' Heroes
The Fairer Sex
In Deadlands, the Civil War has dragged on for nearly 20 years. Manpower in both the North and the South is at an all-time low. This is good news for women, because many of them are able to fill roles they could only dream about before the war.
Women in the Weird West can be most anything, from gunslingers and gamblers, to Indian shamans and warriors, or even politicians (though thus far, only at a local level).
are often dismissed as dreamers at best, insane at worst.
Soldier: You bravely serve either the United States or Confederate Army. Whether you fight to preserve the Union or the Confederate States' right of selfdetermination, you lay your life on the line for a cause more important than yourself. Those who excel climb the ranks to command other soldiers.

31
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

A Word on Slavery
Let's get this out of the way early-- whether in the North, South, West, or somewhere in between, slavery is a thing of the past. While it was a divisive issue in 19th Century America, and many on both sides of the Civil War cited it as a moral motivation to prosecute the war, the real causes of the Civil War were quite a bit more complicated.
In any event, it rapidly became clear to Confederate leadership that in order for the fledgling nation to gain international recognition, the "Peculiar Institution" must be discarded. In 1864, Generals Robert E. Lee and Patrick R. Cleburne proposed a plan to offer slaves their freedom in exchange for military service. President Davis quickly endorsed the plan in a Congressional address.
This helped convert the British Empire's passive sympathy toward the Confederate cause into formal recognition of its independence, and French Emperor Napoleon III soon followed suit. In exchange for the aid of England and France in breaking the Union blockade of Southern ports, and an agreement with England to fix the Confederate dollar to the British pound at a very favorable rate, the British asked the Confederacy to abolish slavery altogether. The Davis administration complied, and on April 9, 1865, all slaves in the Confederate States of America were freed.



Continued...

Makin' Heroes
Once you've decided on a concept for your hombre, it's time to figure out his statistics. You'll find a character sheet designed specifically for this setting both in the back of this book and at our website at www.peginc.com.
1. Race
Humans are the only race allowed in Deadlands, but you still get your free starting Edge as usual.
You can choose any ethnicity you like. Despite the general lawlessness of the West--or perhaps because of it--folks from around the world flock to America in pursuit of a better life.
2. Traits
Now it's time to assign your hero's attributes and skills. Your character begins play with a d4 in each of his five attributes: Agility, Smarts, Spirit, Strength, and Vigor. You have 5 points to distribute among these attributes as you choose. Raising an attribute by a die type costs 1 point, and you may not raise an attribute above d12.
Now you have 15 points to buy your skills. Raising a skill by a die type costs 1 point, as long as it's no higher than the attribute it's linked to. It costs 2 points per die type to raise a skill above its linked attribute. Skills cannot be raised above d12.
All standard skills in the Savage Worlds rulebook are available in Deadlands.
Languages Most folks in the Americas, regardless
of where they hail from originally, have gone out of their way to learn the language of the land. That's English, amigo. Heroes with the Outsider

32
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Hindrance know a different language instead and must drop a couple of points into Knowledge (English) to make themselves understood. If you want to speak another language, you have to buy it as a separate Knowledge skill.
Secondary Statistics The following stats are based on the
traits you have chosen, or are common to all characters, unless changed by Edges or Hindrances.
Charisma is +0, unless modified by Edges or Hindrances.
Grit is a new Secondary Statistic for Deadlands. You have 1 point of Grit for each Rank (1 for Novice, 2 for Seasoned, etc.). We'll tell you what it does soon enough.
Pace is equal to 6". Parry is equal to 2 plus half your Fighting die. If you haven't taken the Fighting skill, it's just 2.
Toughness is equal to 2 plus half your Vigor die.
3. Special Abilities
Next you need to decide what flaws and abilities set your hero apart from other folks. If you choose to take any Hindrances, you can use the points from them to gain any of the benefits below. You may take one Major Hindrance (worth 2 points) and two Minor Hindrances (worth 1 point each). You may take additional Hindrances beyond this, but you do not gain points for them.
For 2 Hindrance points you can: ­ Raise an attribute one die type.
­ Choose an Edge.
For 1 Hindrance point you can: ­ Gain another skill point.
­ Gain an additional $250.

Makin' Heroes
...continued
Fearful of losing the moral high ground (and "naturally antislavery" himself), United States President Abraham Lincoln quickly followed the earlier Emancipation Proclamation (which only abolished slavery in states in rebellion against the United States) with the proposed 13th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which would end slavery in America. The Amend ment was ratified by the end of the year.
By 1879, racism is becoming a thing of the past in the Weird West. Progress has been made, and more will come as peace returns and folks resume their normal lives. The prospect of further integration of Confederate society is aided by a greater sense of community and shared values than in actual history. Circumstances are similar in the North. Just as in the real West, folks are willing to overlook the color of a person's skin in favor of the content of his or her character.
Bottom line: just as in our own lives, bigoted and outright racist attitudes are the province of villains and the shamefully ignorant.
Now that's clear, let's get back to your character, amigo.

33
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
4. Gear
Each hero starts with the clothes on his back and $250 in whatever currency is appropriate for the hero (see Dinero on page 22). You'll want to spend some of that now on weapons, ammunition, and equipment. You'll find a complete list starting on page 56.
5. Background
Finish up by filling out your hero's background. Give him a name, think a bit about where he came from and why he's traveled west (or what he's done his whole life, if he started out there).
This all helps you to play your character well, and gives the Marshal lots of ideas for interesting stories.
6. Worst Nightmare
Finally, think a bit on what really scares your hero. What's he afraid of, and why? Now think about what kind of dream makes him wake up with the cold sweats at night. Write it down. No reason, really. Trust us.

New Hindrances
All the Hindrances listed in Savage Worlds are available in Deadlands, with the exception of Anemic, which is replaced by Ailin'. Wanted works a little differently than described in Savage Worlds as well. In addition, there's a whole passel of new Hindrances available.
Ailin' (Minor or Major)
Medicine is a rudimentary science on the wild frontier, and there are worse ways to die than a severe case of lead poisoning. This Hindrance is reserved for ailment-ridden hombres with a cold grave in their near future.
Like Doc Holliday, your hero has a reservation with the undertaker. It's just not been confirmed yet. The cause of his future demise is something like consumption (tuberculosis), diabetes, or cancer.
When a cowpoke has this Hindrance at the Minor level, he always subtracts 1 from Fatigue rolls made to resist physical exertion (but not Agility rolls to avoid suffering bumps and bruises). He's in the earliest stages of the disease and may not even be diagnosed yet.
If this is a Major Hindrance, your hombre subtracts 2 from Fatigue rolls made to resist physical exertion (though not Agility rolls to avoid bumps and bruises). It's impossible to hide the fact that he's ill, and everybody can tell that death's walking one step behind him.
In either case, at the end of every game session the lunger must make a Vigor roll. On a failure, the disease gets worse. The Minor version of this Hindrance becomes the Major version. If the hero already has the Major Hindrance, he dies at the end of the next session in which he fails a Fatigue check (or at an appropriate time chosen by the Marshal).

34
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Bad Dreams (Major)
Your hombre doesn't sleep well. In fact, the Land of Nod is a constant night mare for him. He tosses and turns like a demon on a rack, and likely keeps every one within a dozen yards of him awake with his nightly torment.
The cowpoke begins each game session with 1 less Fate Chip to represent his constantly tired state. This is cumulative with Bad Luck.
Grim Servant o' Death (Major)
Your hero's a killer. His family's probably pushing daisies, his enemies are worm food, and even a few of his friends have holes in them that are suspiciously the same caliber as his very own shootin' iron.
Only Wild Cards can take this Hin drance, and you shouldn't do it lightly, amigo.
The good news is your hombre adds +1 to every damage roll he ever makes, whether it's from Fighting, Shooting, Spellcasting, or even Throwing things at people in a most inhospitable manner. The downside is that your hero winds up in the hoosegow or on the run a lot. But there's more than that, amigo. Any Shooting or Throwing attack roll that comes up 1 on the skill die (regardless of the result of any Wild Die) automatically hits the nearest friendly character in sight--whether they're in the line of fire or not. Other players' characters are always first choice, but an allied Extra will do in a pinch.
Even hand-to-hand attacks hit allies when that mean old 1 comes up. This may require a little imagination, but either the weapon flies out of the hero's hand and strikes his friend, or the hero must move adjacent to his erstwhile comrade and "accidentally" whack him.

Makin' Heroes
In either case, snake eyes on the attack roll adds an additional d6 to the damage (as if the cowpoke hit with a raise).
Heavy Sleeper (Minor) A thunderstorm from Hell itself won't
wake this Dozing Doolie. Once he drops off, he must make a Notice roll (­4) to wake up. He also suffers a ­4 penalty to Vigor rolls made to stay awake.
Lyin' Eyes (Minor) Lies just don't come easy to this
hombre. That sounds all good and noble, but often causes problems when dealing with more nefarious types. A hero with this Hindrance suffers a ­2 penalty to all Intimidation and Persuasion rolls where lies--even little white ones--must be told.
What's worse, if your hero is planning to make his money playing poker, the penalty also applies to bluffing. That's ­2 to your Gambling rolls in a poker game as well, compadre!
Old Ways Oath (Minor or Major) Whether your hero is an Indian or
he's gone native, he's decided to forego modern technology to honor the spirits. As a Minor Hindrance, he will travel in modern conveyances such as trains or steam wagons, but won't use any modern device himself (including guns, steel knives/tomahawks, etc.). As a Major Hindrance, he won't even passively use such devices, refusing to ride in anything more complex than a horse-drawn wagon (and unhappy to do even that).
Slowpoke (Minor) Molasses on a cold day moves faster
than your hero. Reduce his Pace by 1. This is cumulative with the Lame Hindrance if you really want to put yourself in for the next tortoise and hare

35
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

race. We'll leave you to figure out which one you are.
Tenderfoot (Minor) Some dudes aren't cut out for the
dangers that await on the wild frontier, and your hero is one such greenhorn. For as long he's been out west, he's never really seemed to fit.
Your poor hero suffers ­1 Grit as a result of his inexperience in the ways of the West. A hero with this Hindrance can't take the True Grit Edge.
Of course, this doesn't last forever. The reason Tenderfoot is only a Minor Hindrance is that it can be removed. Once a hero has reached Seasoned rank, he can buy Tenderfoot off by giving up the opportunity to level up one time. This removes the Grit penalty and the restriction to taking the True Grit Edge.
Thin Skinned (Major) Every little ol' cut and scrape makes
your cowpoke cry for mama. As long as he has at least one wound, he suffers an additional ­1 penalty to all his actions (so a hero with 2 wounds would suffer a ­3, for example).
Wanted (Minor or Major) Whether or not your cowpoke did
something wrong, the law thinks he did! His face is on posters all over the territory, and maybe farther afield too. The nature of the crime and the Marshal's sense of "sport" determines how far and wide the charges may have circulated, but someone somewhere is looking for you.
As well as having someone after his hide, your hombre also has a price on his head. For the Minor version, there's a reward of 1d6 x $100. A Major Hindrance ups the bounty to a tempting 1d6 x $1,000. The player and Marshal should agree where the bounty can be collected.
36

New Edges
The following Edges are not allowed in Deadlands: Arcane Background (Psionics) or (Super Powers), Mentalist, Soul Drain, and Wizard. Also, characters may only take one Arcane Background Edge.
Background Edges
Arcane Background (Magic) Requirements: Novice Magic in the Weird West is not to
be taken lightly. Those who practice sorcery must often wrestle their powers from the dark spirits of the Weird West, who are rarely willing to give up easily. Hucksters envision these duels of will as card games, and the best are capable of amazing powers. It is rumored that others tread even darker paths, and harness the power of blood magic.
If you choose to take this Edge, be sure to read the appropriate details in No Man's Land, where you'll find additional Edges available only to Hucksters (see page 91).
Arcane Background (Miracles) Requirements: Novice Certain characters can call upon the
power of their deity (or deities) for aid. In the Weird West, these pious souls are called the blessed. Blessed are nuns, priests, or even average but (relatively) pure-hearted folks blessed by a divine entity. Though rare in the Weird West, there are also blessed imams, Buddhist monks, and others of faith running around with higher powers covering their holy backsides. When these folks behave themselves, they can sometimes invoke miracles to help them fight the evils of the Weird West.
For details on playing one of these crusaders, see page 82, where you'll find

Makin' Heroes
some extra Edges available only to the Blessed.
Arcane Background (Shamanism) Requirements: Novice Shamans are Indian holy men and
women, and keepers of tribal medicine. Their power comes from bargains with the demanding spirits of the natural world. When these medicine men honor the nature spirits, they can accomplish amazing feats that make even the most doubting Thomas tremble.
For details on playing a shaman, along with some extra Edges, see page 92.
Arcane Background (Chi Mastery)
Requirements: Novice, Martial Arts A few folks in the Weird West have studied the ancient oriental fighting arts. A very few of these supremely skilled fighters have achieved spiritual discipline necessary to channel supernatural force through their own bodies, called chi. These enlightened fighters use the Arcane Background (Chi Mastery) Edge to reflect their astonishing abilities.
For details on playing one of these enlightened warriors, as well as a new Edge that opens up different martial arts fighting styles, see page 99.
Arcane Background (Weird Science)
Requirements: Novice Adherents to the principles of New Science (called Mad Scientists by most) build weird and wonderful devices, machines which often seem to defy the very laws of reality. Most every such inventor (or at least the successful ones) rely on ghost rock to power their inventions in some fashion.

37
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Archetypes
The Weird West is a land of opportunity. Everyone from prospec tors to buffalo gals and muckrakers to spies can find something to inter est them out West.
When you're making your hero, think of them as an archetype. Then think about the skills and Edges you'll need to play that role. Some of you may be looking through the Professional Edges and wondering where the Saloon Girl or Spy Edges are. You don't need special Edges to play these types--everything you need is in the Savage Worlds rules.
A saloon girl might pick Attrac tive (or Ugly). Heck, she may be plain looking but Charismatic. If she's "popular," she may have Con nections among the clientele. A muckr aker should definitely take the Investigator Professional Edge. Being Charismatic won't hurt either, if you want to get to the truth.
You want to play a spy? Consider taking Investigator or Thief. Indian brave? Take the Woodsman Edge. Ah, but what about a law man? What's wrong with Charismatic or Command, for a start? Then slap on a Vow to keep the peace.
There's nothing to stop your Marshal tweaking the rules if you really want to tie yourself to a geographic area. He might allow you to take the Noble Edge (without the cash increase) to represent your authority in your area of juris diction. Since you're losing the Rich benefit, he might even allow you to take an extra Edge related to your profession.
In summary, amigos, we've given you a set of wheels to your specific wagon. You don't need to go making your own.

For the scoop on these crackpot inventors and their bizarre gizmos, see page 96.
Veteran o' the Weird West
Requirements: Wild Card, Novice, Guts d6+, Knowledge (Occult) d6+
So you want to be a hero, huh? A big, tough, experienced hero? No problem. Just check your sanity at the door, because those who have already been around the cactus a few times have seen things that would stop most men's tickers. As a result, they ain't the same as they used to be!
Veterans o' the Weird West begin play at Seasoned (or one Rank higher than the rest of the cowpokes in your campaign), which means they gain 20 Experience Points to begin the game with. Go ahead and advance your hero normally, as described in the Savage Worlds rules.
There's a price, though. If you take this Edge, you must draw a single card from the action deck once you're done creating your cowpoke. Show it to your Marshal and he'll check the table in the Marshal's Handbook to see just what kind of bad luck your hombre wandered into on his path to studliness. If you draw a Joker, draw again and tell your Marshal whether you drew a black card or a red card (or another Joker).
Beware--the results can be quite extreme, from maiming to insanity. Your Marshal has the details. You've been warned!
Combat Edges
Disagreements are a daily occurrence in the Weird West, and the great majority of men have no qualms about using violence to settle them. For this reason, and probably others too, you'll want to peruse the following Edges. They're designed to make your hombre a real

38
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

curly wolf when the blades come out and the lead starts flyin'.
Duelist Requirements: Wild Card, Novice,
Shooting d6+ Your hombre is a deadly gunfighter,
and anyone foolish enough to face him at High Noon winds up in the boneyard by sunset.
In a duel, this hero receives an extra hole card for each point of Grit he has. Rules for dueling can be found on page 68.
Hip-Shooting Requirements: Seasoned, Shooting
d8+ Any hombre can fan a single-action
pistol, but your hero's a natural hipshooter. He suffers only a ­2 to his Shooting rolls when fanning the hammer (see page 67).
Improved Hip-Shooting Requirements: Heroic, Shooting
d10+, Hip-Shooting Your hero's got fanning down to
a fine art. He suffers no penalty to his Shooting roll when fanning the hammer.
Martial Arts Requirements: Novice, Fighting d6+ You've trained in martial arts or
boxing, or learned to street fight really dirty. Your character's body is a finely honed weapon, so even when your hero fights unarmed, he is considered armed. In addition, opponents in melee combat never benefit from any gang up bonus against your hero.
Rebel Yell Requirements: Novice, hero must be
from the CSA The blood-curdling Rebel Yell has
terrified Yankees and emboldened

Makin' Heroes
Confederates from Manassas on. Sure, the shooting has mostly stopped now, but feelings run pretty deep on both sides and when the blood is up, this war cry can still elicit the same responses.
When used, the Reb may make an Intimidation roll against all targets in an area (as opposed to a single victim as usual). Place a Large Burst Template adjacent to the character (a 6" area of effect, with the edge adjacent to the cowpoke). Every creature within the circle must roll Spirit against the character's Intimidation total.

39
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Speed Load Requirements: Seasoned, Agility d8+,
Shooting d6+ Your pistolero has mastered the fine
art of loading his six-gun in an all-fired hurry. Your hero can reload one weapon on his action, ignoring the usual ­2 penalty to Shooting rolls in the same round.
If your hero is using a weapon that requires a full round or more to reload, the time required is reduced by 1 round.
Social Edges
Card Sharp Requirements: Novice, Gambling d6+ Your hero has a way with a deck and
never feels more at home than when he's shuffling cards. He's learned a whole heap of ways to cut, shuffle, and deal that give him an edge in a game.
A gambler with this Edge only gets caught cheating on a roll of snake eyes. What's more, if your hero's a Huckster, folks get a ­2 to Notice rolls when trying to spot a hex being cast.
Reputation Requirements: Veteran Whether the character is branded a
hero or villain, he has earned a repu tation across the West. He may add his Charisma to Intimidation rolls. A negative score is treated as positive for this purpose (and the character has a bad reputation).
True Grit Requirements: Wild Card, Novice,
Spirit d8+ Some folks just seem to exude tough
ness, and your hero is one of them. The horrors of life in the Weird West don't faze this hombre. He's got gravel in his

gut and ice water running through his veins.
Your hero's cool demeanor gives him +1 Grit.
Professional Edges
Agent Requirements: Seasoned, Smarts d8+,
Fighting d6+, Knowledge (Law) d4+, Knowledge (Occult) d6+, Investigation d6+, Shooting d6+
The shadowy Agency is the Union's answer to the mysterious occurrences some say are happening in the world. Its Agents are a secretive lot, and do not share information outside their ranks if they can avoid it, not even with the local law.
This Edge is for full-time Agents beholden to the Agency. Other characters may work for the Agency on a parttime "troubleshooter" basis, but only those who work for the Agency every minute of every day of their lives until they retire (rarely) or die (much more common) should take this Edge.
Agents are expected to spy on the enemies of the Union, seek out and contain, destroy, or capture weird creatures, and generally follow the orders handed down to them by the Agency itself.
These secretive servants of the Union have jurisdiction anywhere within its borders, but are expected not to reveal their credentials except under extreme and desperate circumstances.
Agents receive a free Gatling pistol upon completion of their training course and always add +1 to their Guts checks.
Agents are simply ranked as Grade 0 through 5. Grade 6 is reserved for the legendary leader of the Agency, the "Ghost," though rumors of his recent demise are widely circulated.

40
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Agent characters begin at Grade 0, and test for promotion upon the completion of each assignment or the destruction of some great evil (Marshal's call). See the Promotion Table on the left for the procedure.
Pay is $40 per month at Grade 0, though Agents have access to more funds on a temporary and returnable basis, as shown on the table below. These allotments are rough guidelines per month--not absolutes. If an Agent absolutely needs people, equipment, or other resources beyond his rank to stop some unholy threat, he'll either get it or a more senior Agent will be sent out to take over. If a more senior Agent is needed, however, that Agent will most likely get the promotion and accolades instead. More on the Agency can be found on page 79.

Agency Ranks

Grade Pay Allotment

0

$40

$500

1

$60

$1,000

2

$80

$2,000

3

$120

$4,000

4

$150

$8,000

5

$200

$15,000

Makin' Heroes
Promotion Table
At the completion of an Agent or Ranger's mission, roll 1d20 and add the modifiers below. A roll of 20 or greater means the character is promoted. A total of 24 or better means the hero is awarded an appropriate medal or citation as well.
Each medal or citation adds +1 to the hero's Charisma toward those who respect the award and have the chance to notice it (whether it is worn or simply known by reputation).
Mission Modifiers
-- Routine Mission +2 Difficult Mission +4 Very Difficult Mission +6 Suicidal Mission
Situational Modifiers
­2 Character is Grade 0 or a Private
+2 Character was injured +2 Character commited
an act of conspicuous bravery witnessed by others

Scout
Requirements: Novice, Notice d6+, Tracking d6+
Scouts have learned to watch the signs and trust their instincts when it comes to navigating the vast wilderness.
Any time the Marshal draws a face card while traveling (indicating a random encounter has occurred), a scout may make a Notice roll (­2). If successful, the scout detects the hazard, creature, or situation at the earliest opportunity, likely giving his party time to avoid it

41
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

or at least attack it on their own terms. Don't forget to remind the Marshal you have this Edge if your posse's going to be traveling.
Scouts also gain +2 to Notice rolls made to avoid surprise in tactical situations.
Snakeoil Salesman Requirements: Novice, Smarts d6+,
Spirit d6+, Persuasion d8+
With honey-dewed lips that weave lies and fabrications like they were the Gospel truth, this smooth talker could sell salt to the Mormons and buffalo hides to Indians.
The character gains a +2 bonus to noncombat Persuasion rolls. He can also use his forked tongue to initiate a Persuasion Test of Will, opposed by the target's Smarts.
Soldier Requirements: Special A hero with this Edge may start as a
private, NCO, or officer when he takes

this Edge. Each step comes with its own perks and responsibilities--it's not necessarily better to be an officer instead of an NCO or private.
Characters may progress upward from their current rank by making Promotion rolls (see the Promotion Table). Note that the Union Army pays slightly better than its Confederate counterpart, as noted under Rank Hath Its Privileges.
Characters may also be demoted a number of ranks if they perform poorly, abandon their post, disobey orders, or otherwise operate outside the code of military conduct. Demotions are subjective and entirely up to the Marshal, and no roll is required.
Soldiers are on duty 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Those who decide to run off on personal adventures without permission may find themselves victims of a court martial or even summary execution!
Characters aren't expected to take entire companies on traditional adv en

42
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

tures, of course (though this is Savage Worlds, so they could!), but the Rank Table lists the resources they may be able to draw upon if the situation warrants.
Private Requirements: Novice, Fighting d6+,
Shooting d6+
Privates get regular food, pay, and their gear, which includes a uniform, Winchester '73 rifle with 20 rounds, canteen, bedroll, and a horse if the private is part of a cavalry troop.
Privates always subtract 2 from Promotion rolls. Once they are promoted to corporals, they no longer suffer the penalty. Corporals who gain promotions become NCOs.
NCO Requirements: Seasoned, Fighting
d6+, Intimidation d6+, Shooting d6+
Noncommissioned Officers (NCOs) in the Union or Confederate Army start as sergeants and lead squads of ten privates. As NCOs advance through the ranks, they lead larger and larger formations. Note, however, that they are held directly responsible for the lives of the men under their command, their performance, and morale. As a result, NCOs are renowned for being vigilant and tough.
Sergeants start play with the same gear given to a private, plus an Army pistol and 20 rounds. Sergeants also gain +1 Charisma due to their rank when dealing with those who respect their authority.
Officer Requirements: Novice, Smarts d6+,
Knowledge (Battle) d6+
Officers lead a command, depending on their rank, as shown on the table below. Unlike NCOs, officers are often held responsible for operations and

Makin' Heroes
battles before individual lives, though they must often weigh these lives carefully against defeat.
Officers gain +2 Charisma when dealing with those who respect their authority. Officers are given a uniform, saber, an Army pistol with 20 rounds, and a horse if commissioned by the cavalry.

Rank Hath Its Privileges

Rank

Command Pay

Private

--

$20/$17

Corporal

--

$25/$50

NCOs Sergeant

Squad

Ordnance Sergeant

Squad

Quartermaster Platoon

Sergeant

(4 Squads)

Sergeant Major

Company (8 Squads)

$30/$25 $50/$35
$65/$50
$80/$65

Of ficers Second Lieutenant
First Lieutenant
Captain
Major
Lieutenant Colonel
Colonel
Brigadier General
Major General
Lieutenant
General

1 Platoon $30/$25

1 Platoon $40/$30

1 Company 1 Company 1 Battalion

$50/$35 $75/$40 $100/$60

1 Regiment $120/$75 1 Brigade $200/$100

1 Division $400/$200

1 Corps $800/$400 1 Army $1,600/$800

43
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Tale Teller
Requirements: Novice, Persuasion d8+
A good storyteller not only entertains, he gives hope and comfort as well. Sodbusters and saddletramps in the Weird West can use all the hope and comfort they can find. We don't want to say too much, but good tale tellers are critical to saving the world.
What? The world needs saving? You bet it does. You'll discover why eventually. In the meantime, know that spreading the tales of your posse's derring-do is far more important in the grand scheme of things than the ability to fire a gun or ride. So if you do something amazing, bucko, tell people about it!
The Marshal's Handbook has the skinny on all this, but you need to know what the Edge does, so we'll share this much with you now. When making a Persuasion roll to tell a tale of his posse's exploits, an orator with this Edge gains a +2 bonus. Furthermore, where most tale tellers bungle the story when they roll a 1 on the Persuasion die (regardless of the result of the Wild Die), your hero does so only on a roll of snake eyes.
When a tale teller with this Edge successfully lowers a Fear Level, he gets a one-time, one-use Legend Chip all his own (it doesn't go into the players' pot like other Fate Chips do, it goes straight to the player). Talk to the Marshal about this, amigo. We've already told you more than we should.
Texas Ranger
Requirements: Seasoned, Vigor d8+, Fighting d6+, Riding d6+, Shooting d6+, Streetwise d6+, Survival d6+, Tracking d6+
The South uses the Texas Rangers to police its interior. These hardened men hunt the High Plains and other

regions for outlaws, bandits, deserters, and Union spies. The Tombstone Epitaph claims that, like the Agency, they are tasked with seeking out stranger prey as well, but only crackpots believe those bedtime stories, right?
Rangers advance along military ranks, but always start as privates. Ranger privates are given a badge (giving them +2 Charisma to those who respect its authority, and jurisdiction over all civilians of the Confederacy), a copy of Fugitives from Justice (giving them +2 to Law-based Common Knowledge rolls), and a general direction to mosey toward.
Pay is slightly higher for the Rangers than for their Union counterparts, but Rangers of all ranks are expected to handle things themselves according to the old creed, "One riot, one Ranger."
On the completion of every encounter with outlaws or other weirdness, the Ranger must report in and the Marshal can check for promotion on the promotion table on page 41.

Ranger Ranks

Rank

Pay

Private

$43

Corporal

$45

Sergeant

$52

1st Sergeant

$60

2nd Lieutenant

$130

1st Lieutenant

$135

Captain

$140

Major

$194

Lt. Colonel

$206

Colonel

$237

For you Ranger types, there's more information about these tough hombres and their secretive ways on page 81. Check with your Marshal before you read it, partner.

44
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Wilderness Man Requirements: Novice, Smarts d8+,
Vigor d6+, Notice d8+, Survival d6+, Tracking d6+
Whether they live in the high Rockies, the Great Plains, or the deserts, wilderness men are used to the rigors of nature and take extremes of weather in stride.
They gain +2 to Survival and Tracking. In addition, lifetimes of exposure to nature's fury give them a +2 bonus to Vigor rolls to resist Fatigue from Heat or Cold (see Savage Worlds).
Weird Edges
Fate's Favored Requirements: Wild Card, Seasoned This cowpoke's got someone watching
out for him, and he can trust Lady Luck to come through in a pinch. Once per session, he may spend a Fate Chip of any color and treat it as if it were a blue chip.
Fate's Favored may be selected more than once, but only one time per Rank. Each time you choose it, your hero gains another use of the ability in each session.
Knack Requirements: Wild Card, Novice This Edge should only be taken during
character creation (unless there is a good reason for the hero to "discover" his latent powers at a later date).
The Weird West is a superstitious place, where rumors and old wives' tales abound. Just occasionally, though, these folktales contain a germ of truth. A knack is just that--folklore come true.
Well, now you get to choose one of the special events that coincided with the time of your birth. Each one gives you access to a special ability, which you can activate by using a Fate Chip (of any
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

color). If you don't have a Fate Chip to spare, you can't use your knack.
Bastard: Well, that's what your hero is. Not the mean ornery kind, but the fatherless kind. A child born out of wedlock is said to be able to see the unseen.
Discard a Fate Chip to be able to see invisible critters, or those that supernaturally blend in with their surroundings.
Born on All Hallow's Eve: They say the King of Halloween favors those born on his day of mischief, and grants them a greater understanding of the arcane world. As one of these rascals, your hero can only choose Magic and Weird Science Arcane Backgrounds. If you've already set your heart on a different Arcane Background, you'll have to choose another knack.
A Weird Scientist with this knack can discard a Fate Chip and make a successful Spirit roll to avoid dementia

as a result of taking the New Powers Edge (see page 98).
A huckster with this knack can discard a Fate Chip and make a successful Spirit roll to avoid Backfire after making a poker hand to cast a hex (see page 91). With a success he is just Shaken as if by Backlash, and with a raise, he avoids it completely.
Born on Christmas: A babe born on Christmas is particularly resistant to arcane effects powered by evil spirits. As such, your hero can only use Miracles and Shamanism Arcane Backgrounds. If you wanted to take a different Arcane Background, this isn't the knack for you.
When targeted by a power from any other Arcane Background, a hero with this knack can discard a Fate Chip to negate the effect and force the caster to make a Spirit roll (­4) or be Shaken.
Breech Birth: A baby born butt-first is said to have the uncanny ability to heal injuries.

46
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Your hero is just such a person and can spend a Fate Chip to use the greater healing power. He doesn't need to roll, he automatically gets a single success (thus healing one wound).
Seventh Son: Your hero is fated for greatness; his legend will loom large in the Weird West.
This hombre has the ability to control fate. Any time a Fate Chip is used in his presence, he can discard a like-colored chip to negate its effect.
Legendary Edges
Behold A Pale Horse... Requirements: Legendary The Lone Ranger had Silver, Zorro
had Toronado, and your steed is no less impressive. Whether it is a new stallion you've just broken in, or the same faithful pony you've had since you were young, there is something special about your horse. It has character.
Your faithful beast uses the statistics for a war horse (see the Savage Worlds rules) but gains the Fearless special ability and the Danger Sense Edge. What's more, the horse is a Wild Card. That's right, muchacho, your horse has its own Fate Chips and can do all the things a Wild Card can do. If the trusty steed dies, however, you have to choose this Edge again, or lose the benefit.
Damned Requirements: Legendary, Reputation Old gunslingers don't die, they just...
Okay, they do die. Usually in messy and embarrassing ways. But if your grizzled veteran of the Weird West goes down, he's definitely coming back. Taking this Edge is something of an insurance policy against having your plans for this old hand ended prematurely.

Makin' Heroes
If your hero is killed, he automatically returns from the grave, a Harrowed (and we're not talking suicide here). Just how long that takes relies on the Marshal's whim and the story. It could be nearinstant, or it could be after your partners put you in a pine box and read the 23rd psalm.
The Marshal's Handbook has more information on this weird state of affairs. Death is just the beginning, amigo!
Fast As Lightning Requirements: Legendary, Quick,
Agility d10+
When your hero reaches for his shootin' irons, folks rarely have time to blink, much less draw him down. Some say he's the fastest gun in the West.
Whether that's true or not, he's quick, real quick. Any time your hero is dealt lower than a ten for initiative, treat his card as a ten of the same suit.
Right Hand of the Devil Requirements: Legendary, Shooting,
Fighting, or Throwing d10+
Your hero is fast on the trigger and renowned far and wide as one mean hombre in a fight. Folks have taken to calling him the right hand of the devil (or left hand of the devil if your cowpoke is of the sinister rather than dexter persuasion).
Whichever weapon you hero uses in his favored hand has been infused with some of the mythic status he is accorded, turning that weapon into a powerful relic. A relic weapon does an extra damage die of the same type as that weapon's highest damage die. So a relic Colt revolving rifle would do a fearsome 3d8 damage.
Of course, the Edge remains with the weapon, so if you lose your gun, you lose the Edge and whoever takes the weapon gains the benefit of the relic.

47
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
48
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Gear and Goods

A well-oiled six-gun at your side. A Winchester: the gun that "tamed the West." A good horse and a sturdy saddle.
These are the necessities, but there are all sorts of things for sale in the Weird West. The trick isn't finding someone to sell them to you...it's finding an honest shopkeep!
In this chapter you'll find a good assortment of the things a cowpoke needs to get by, whether by the skin of his teeth or in luxurious style.

As we told you in the last chapter, com padre, your hero starts the game with just $250 in local currency. Anything you want in the way of possessions, you're going to have to buy! Now, we know your money won't go far, so in Deadlands you have two options when you go shopping. You can pay the price listed on the charts in this chapter, or you can hunt down a bargain by buying el cheapo gear. Of course, there's a downside to being overthrifty. We don't want to make it too easy on you, amigo!
El Cheapo Gear
Most anything listed here, excepting services, can be bought cheaper than the listed price. Common items such as clothes are ratty and torn, hats are crumpled, and dinged-up playing cards can't be used anywhere except by the campfire. The effects of these items are usually situational, though many items can cause bigger problems...or become them!

El cheapo gear costs 50% of the normal price, but a cowpoke only receives a discount on types of gear described below. Cheap equipment that doesn't come with a disadvantage costs near full price.
Cheap guns, saddles, and so forth-- anything a cowpoke might use in an attribute roll--malfunction when the player rolls a 1 on the skill die, as if your hombre had the All Thumbs Hindrance. This even applies to gear that is normally exempted from All Thumbs. Your el cheapo tomahawk, for example, might fall apart while you're trying to whack on some no-good rascal. If your cowpoke has All Thumbs, he's in for double trouble: el cheapo gear malfunctions on a 1 or 2. (Good luck, buddy.)
Items that don't come into play for skill rolls might affect folks' perception of your hero. A ratty duster, for example, is a sure sign of a no-good scofflaw or saddletramp in civilized company (and in the more toney parts of the West, too!). These items inflict a ­1 Charisma modifier on your hombre, though the maximum total Charisma penalty for el cheapo gear is ­2.

49
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

El Cheapo Horses
Skinflint characters who cheap out on horseflesh are in for a whole different brand of trouble.
El cheapo horses, in addition to their normal statistics, have two Minor Hindrances or a Major Hindrance of the Marshal's choice. That's right, partner, you could wind up with an elderly nag, a stubborn mare, or a stallion full of piss and vinegar. You pays your money (or not) and you takes your chances when you save money on your trusty steed.
Marshal, we know how much you want to punish your players for being misers, but use common sense here. Horses don't make the kind of enemies that call them out for a duel at High Noon, and they're about as likely to be outlaws as Doc Holliday is to join a sewing circle.
Selling Goods
Posses often wind up with a fair amount of spare gear. Everyday items are easy enough to sell or trade, but unloading more unusual or dangerous gear--guns, blades, and gold bullion, for example--can be a bit tricky. One or two such items can be sold at full price if the trader finds the right private buyer, but no merchant pays full price.
Attempting to unload much more is liable to catch the attention of suspicious law dogs, something characters in the market to sell ill-gotten goods probably want to avoid. A Streetwise roll in a city of fair size or larger allows the seller to dump the goods at a quarter the normal value, while a raise nets half the list price. This roll may be attempted once a week.
50

Gear Notes
Most of the items on the gear lists are self-explanatory. A few have some additional rules, as listed below.
Camera: This is an old-fashioned box camera. Unlike the Epitaph Camera, the photographer's subject must remain still for several minutes for a clear picture.
Chaps: These heavy leather, seatless trousers are worn by ranchers and other riders to protect their trousers and legs. They grant a +1 bonus to Riding rolls to resist Fatigue.
Dynamite: Dynamite is sold by the stick or by the case; a typical case contains 24 sticks. The weapon table lists the effects for combining sticks of dynamite. A demolitionist may use up to eight sticks as a single, throwable weapon. For any number not listed, add +1 damage to the base value per additional stick. For example, three sticks of dynamite inflict 3d6+1 damage and otherwise work like throwing two sticks, while seven sticks would do 4d6+3 damage and otherwise work like four sticks.
Exploding dynamite automatically sets off any other dynamite in the blast radius. Increase the effect based on the total number of sticks in the area, with any additional sticks beyond eight counting as separate damage rolls.
Eight (or more) sticks of dynamite exploding at once is considered a Heavy Weapon.
For example, Mike tosses four sticks of dynamite at Steve, not knowing that Steve has 10 sticks of dynamite in his saddlebags, so a total of 14 sticks explode, resulting in two damage rolls--one roll for eight sticks doing 5d6 damage in a Large Burst Template, and one for six sticks doing 4d6+2 damage in a Medium Burst Template.

Gea r and Goods
For purposes of this rule, center the first explosion on the original target, and any secondary explosions on the location(s) of the additional dynamite. This may result in cascading explosions as more dynamite is covered by the expanding area. Try not to giggle too much when this occurs.
Hatchet: Treat this as a knife when used as a weapon.
Lantern: A lantern provides light in a 4" radius for three hours per pint of oil. There is a 50% chance the lantern breaks if dropped, and a 1 in 6 chance it sets normal combustibles alight.
Lockpicks: A scofflaw who tries to pick a lock without these tools suffers a ­2 penalty to his Lockpicking roll.
Nitro: A liquid explosive used in the manufacture of dynamite, nitro isn't particularly stable. If a cowpoke rolls snake eyes on any Agility roll while carrying nitro, the bottle explodes and inflicts damage as if it was thrown.
Pick: Picks make poor weapons, largely due to their weight and poor balance for the task. The user suffers a ­1 to Parry and Fighting rolls while using a pick, and must have at least Strength d8. Picks inflict d6 damage.
Quick Draw Holster: This item allows the user to draw a pistol quickly in combat. Pistoleros only suffer a ­1 multi-action penalty when they draw a pistol carried in a quick draw holster (additional multi-action penalties are ­2, as normal).
Rope (20 yards): This rope can safely handle 300 pounds without difficulty. For every 50 pounds over that, roll 1d6 every minute, or whenever the rope suffers sudden stress. On a 1, the rope snaps.
Speed Load Cylinder: A pistolero can use a speed-load cylinder to reload a six-

51
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

Common Items

Clothes

Item Boots Chaps Duster Longjohns Shirt/blouse, dress Shirt/blouse, work Silk stockings Shoes Suit/fancy dress Trousers/skirt Winter coat

Cost $8 $4 $10 $2 $3 $1 $1 $2 $15 $2 $15

Explosives

Item

Cost

Blasting Cap

$1

Detonator, plunger $10

Detonation wire (per 50')

$2.50

Dynamite (per stick) $3

Dynamite (per case $65 of 24 sticks)

Fuse (per foot)

5¢

Nitro (per pint)

$2.50

Food & Drink

Item

Cost

Bacon (per lb.)

15¢

Coffee (per lb.)

25¢

Restaurant, good

Breakfast

50¢

Lunch

25¢

Dinner

$1

Restaurant, cheap

25¢

(any meal)

Trail rations (per day) 50¢

Weight 4 6 4 2 1 1 -- 1 6 2 3
Weight -- 10 1
1 30
1/50ft. 1
Weight 1 1
-- -- --
3

General Equipment

Item

Cost

Ax, wood

$2

Backpack

$2

Barbed wire (per yard) 5¢

Bed roll

$4

Camera

$3

Canteen

$1



Cigar

5¢

Drill

$2

File

25¢

Ghost rock (1 lb.)

$100

Gold (1 oz.)

$5

Guitar

$8

Hammer

50¢

Handcuffs

$3.50

Harmonica

50¢

Hatchet

$1

Iron skillet

50¢

Lantern

$2.50

Lantern oil

10¢

(per gallon)

Lockpicks

$50

Matches (box of 100) 50¢

Mess kit

$2

Photographic plate $1

Pick

$2

Pipe

$2

Playing cards

25¢

Rope (per 50')

$5

Shovel

$1.50

Silver (1 oz.)

$1

Spectacles

$5

Tobacco, chewing

50¢

(tin)

Tobacco, smoking

50¢

(pouch)

Watch, standard

$2.50

Watch, gold

$10

Weight 5 3
5/50 ft. 10 5
5 (full)/ 1 (empty)
-- 2 1 1 -- 6 2 3 -- 2½ 5 4 6
1 ¼ 3 ½ 12 ¾ -- 8 5 -- -- 1
1
½ ½

52
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Gea r and Goods

Common Items

Gun Accessories

Item Gun belt Holster Quick-draw holster Rifle boot Shotgun thong Speed-load cylinder

Cost $2 $3 $11 $3 25¢ $3

Hats

Item Bonnet Derby Fedora Sombrero Stetson

Cost $2
$1.50 $3
$3.50 $5

Liquor

Item Beer (glass) Cheap stuff Shot Bottle Good stuff Shot Bottle

Cost 5¢
10¢ $2
25¢ $5

Weight 1 1 1 ½ -- 1
Weight -- -- -- -- --
Weight --
-- 4
-- 4

Transportation

Item

Cost

Buckboard

$75

Buggy/cab

$200

Conestoga wagon $200

Horse

$150

Mule

$50

Riverboat (per mile) 5¢

Saddle

$25

Saddlebags

$5

Stagecoach (per mile) 10¢

Train ticket (per mile) 5¢

Services

Item

Cost

Bath

$1

Burial

$5

Doctor visit

Office

$3

House call

$5

Photo

$10

Room (per day)

Boarding house (w/meals)

$3

--

Low-class hotel

$2

High-class hotel

$10

Shave and a haircut 25¢

Telegram (per word) 5¢

Weight -- -- -- -- -- -- 30 5 -- --
Weight -- --
-- -- --
-- -- -- --

Prices listed here are the full regular price for common items.  El cheapo gear is 50% of this listed price, but using substandard 
gear can have other possible consequences (see page 49).
53
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Cap & Ball Weapons
Cap and ball weapons get their name from the way they are fired. The bullet (ball) and gunpowder are loaded by hand into the weapon's chamber, requiring more time to reload than modern cartridge ammunition. These weapons have Reload 2 (all Reload 2 weapons listed are Cap & Ball weapons).
Be careful if you go for one of these old pieces, amigo. They load a mite slow. Stick with one of these weapons and you'll learn the hard way: they'll get you into trouble but they won't get you out.
shooter as if he has the Speed Load Edge, provided he's pre-loaded the cylinder.
Wood Ax: This ax is intended for chopping lumber, and makes an awkward weapon. If used in this fashion, it acts like a tomahawk with a d8 minimum Strength, but requires two hands to use. Further, if the would-be lumberjack rolls a 1 on his Fighting die, he whacks himself. Snake eyes means he takes damage as if he had rolled a raise.
Weapon Notes
Bolas/Lariat: These weapons can be used to perform an Agility Trick using the wielder's Fighting (for lariats)

or Throwing (for bolas) skill. Success means the opponent suffers ­2 Parry until his next action. With a raise the opponent falls prone, suffers ­2 Parry, and is Shaken.
Colt Buntline Special: The original model was specially made for Ned Buntline. It has a 16-inch barrel and a detachable shoulder stock. Buntline had a limited number made and gave them as gifts to prominent Western personalities.
These pistols cannot normally be bought. They must be ordered directly from the Colt factory in New Jersey (for $500), or pried from the cold, dead fingers of their owners. Since this list includes such luminaries as Wyatt Earp and Bat Masterson, ordering is likely the wiser course.
Buntlines are slow on the draw due to their long barrels. When using a Buntline, gunslingers do not benefit from the Quick Draw Edge or quick draw holsters.
English 1840 Model/Wesson DaggerPistol: A knife blade juts out from between these weapons' multiple bar rels, which inflicts Str+d4 damage.
Evans Old Model Sporter: This high capacity rifle uses special .44 caliber ammo made only by the gun's manufacturer. These bullets are hard to come by out West, but can be ordered directly from the company (delivery takes about three weeks).
Gatling Gun: Gatling guns were commonly used on the battlefields of the Civil War, but are prone to jams. If the shooter rolls more 1s than anything else in a single burst, the weapon jams and does not operate until a Repair roll is made. On any other result, it simply misses as usual.
LeMat Carbine/Revolver: These unu sual weapons mount a 16-gauge

54
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

scatterg un barrel under the pistol (or rifle) barrel. A switch moves the hammer between the two, so the weapon can be fired either way each action round without penalty.
Whip: If the wielder scores a raise on his attack roll, the attack does not inflict an additional d6 damage. Instead, the victim suffers a ­2 to his Parry until his next action.

Gea r and Goods

Infernal Devices
While many of the weapons above represent the cutting edge of mundane technology, they fall far short of the ghost rock powered inventions of the self-styled "New Scientists."
Despite these new-fangled machines' incredible effectiveness, more than a few folks have taken to calling them "infernal devices" thanks to their tendency to rattle apart, explode, and otherwise malfunction--usually just when their owners need them most.
Despite most inventors taking great offense at the term, it stuck. The vast majority of infernal devices (seen by the public anyway) come from the work shops of the acclaimed Smith & Robards. Customers can order these amazing machines and have them delivered to their doorstep, or even via emergency courier "out in the field."
Gizmos and Infernal Devices
There is an important difference in the terminology of the New Science.
"Gizmos" are hasty devices made in the field by a Mad Scientist. Infernal devices require months or years of intensive research in well-equipped labs, as well as materials made in smelters or custom-made by skilled craftsmen. The

latter can be purchased from businesses such as Smith & Robards, conceived and built by Mad Scientists, or discovered in the possession of private inventors.
Likewise, noxious brews made in advanced distilleries are called "elixirs." Those cooked up "in the field" by a scientist with the Alchemy Edge (see page 98) are called potions.
Tinkerin' & Manufacturin'
Your average scientist simply doesn't have the equipment, time, or ready capital to manufacture elixirs and infernal devices. But once scientists make names for themselves--and fortunes to go with them--it's possible to turn out infernal devices just as reliable as the ones the big boys make!
Using their own blueprints, mad scien tists can build or re-engineer any Infernal Device (elixirs can only be created by a scientist with the Alchemy Edge). To

55
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

Shootin' Irons & Other Ranged Weapons

Automatics

Weapon

Range Dmg RoF Cost Wt Shots Min Str. Notes

Gatling Gun (.45)

24/48/96 2d8 3 $1,500 40 100

­ AP 2; may not

 move

Carbines

Weapon Sharps '55 (.57) Spencer (.56) LeMat Carbine (.42) & Shotgun (16-ga)

Range Dmg RoF Cost Wt Shots Min Str. Notes

20/40/80 2d8 1 $18 8

1

­ AP 2; reload 2

20/40/80 2d8 1 $15 8

7

­ AP 2

20/40/80 2d8 1 $35 9

9

­ AP 1; see notes

12/24/48 1­3d6 1

­­

1

­

Derringers & Pepperboxes

Weapon

Range

Derringer (.41)

5/10/20

English 1840 Model (.36) 5/10/20

Rupertus

5/10/20

Pepperbox (.22)

Wesson Dagger

5/10/20

Pistol (.41)

Dmg RoF Cost Wt Shots Min Str. Notes

2d6 1 $8 ½ 2

­ AP 1

2d6 1 $5 1

8

­ AP 1; reload 2

2d6 1 $6 1

8

­

2d6 1 $6 1

2

­ AP 1; see notes

Revolvers, Single-Action

Weapon Colt Army (.44) Colt Buntline Special (.45) Colt Dragoon (.44) Colt Navy (.36) Colt Peacemaker (.45) Lemat Grapeshot Pistol (.40) & Shotgun (16-ga)

Range Dmg RoF Cost Wt Shots Min Str. Notes

12/24/48 2d6+1 1 $12 2

6

­ AP 1

15/30/60 2d6+1 1 $500 3

6

­ AP 1; see notes

12/24/48 2d6+1 1 $11 4

6

12/24/48 2d6 1 $10 3

6

12/24/48 2d6+1 1 $15 2

6

­ AP 1 ­ AP 1 ­ AP 1

12/24/48 2d6 1 $25 4

9

5/10/20 1­3d6 1

­­

1

­ AP 1; see notes ­­

Revolvers, Double-Action

Weapon

Range Dmg RoF Cost Wt Shots Min Str. Notes

Colt Frontier (.32­20) 12/24/48 2d6 1 $8 2

6

­ AP 1

Colt Lightning (.38) 12/24/48 2d6 1 $13 2

6

­ AP 1

Colt Peacemaker (.45) 12/24/48 2d6+1 1 $15 2

6

­ AP 1

Colt Thunderer (.41) 12/24/48 2d6 1 $14 2

6

­ AP 1

Starr Revolver (.44)

12/24/48 2d6+1 1 $9 2

6

­ AP 1;

 reload 2

56
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Gea r and Goods

Shootin' Irons & Other Ranged Weapons

Rifles

Weapon

Range Dmg RoF Cost Wt Shots Min Str. Notes

Ballard '72 (.56)

24/48/96 2d8 1 $24 11 1

­ AP 2; reload 2

Bullard Express (.50) 24/48/96 2d10 1 $30 11 11

d8 AP 2

Colt-Paterson

24/48/96 2d10 1 $25 12 7

d8

Model `86 (.69)

AP 2; reload 2

Colt Revolving Rifle (.56)

24/48/96 2d8 1 $24 11 5

d6 AP 2; reload 2

Enfield Musket (.58) 12/24/48 2d8 1 $25 9

1

­ AP 2; reload 2

Evans Old Model Sporter (.44)

24/48/96 2d8 1 $30 12 34

­ AP 2

Sharp's Big 50 (.50)

24/48/96 2d10 1 $20 10 1

d8 AP 2

Springfield (.58)

24/48/96 2d10 1 $8 9

1

d6 AP 2; reload 2

Winchester `73 (.44­40) 24/48/96 2d8 1 $25 7 15

d6 AP 2

Winchester `76 (.45)

24/48/96 2d8 1 $40 7

15

­ AP 2

Shotguns (all 12-gauges)

Weapon Colt Revolving Shotgun Double Barrel Scattergun Single Barrel Winchester Lever- Action

Range Dmg RoF Cost Wt Shots Min Str. Notes

12/24/48 1­3d6 1 $45 10 5

d6 +2 Shooting rolls

12/24/48 1­3d6 1­2 $35 8

2

6/12/24 1­3d6 1­2 $35 5

2

12/24/48 1­3d6 1 $25 6

1

12/24/48 1­3d6 1 $35 8

4

­ +2 Shooting rolls ­ +2 Shooting rolls ­ +2 Shooting rolls d6 +2 Shooting rolls

Other Ranged Weapons

Weapon Bolas Bow Nitro (8 oz. bottle)

Range 4/8/16 12/24/48 4/8/16

Dmg RoF Cost Wt Str+1 1 $3 .5 2d6 1 $3 2
3d6 1 $1.25 ½

Shots 1 1 1

Min Str. Notes ­ see notes ­ ­ LBT; see notes

Dynamite

Dynamite (1 stick)

4/8/16 2d6 1 $3 ½ 1

­

Dynamite (2 sticks)

4/8/16 3d6 1 $6 1

1

­

Dynamite (4 sticks)

3/6/12 4d6 1 $12 2

1

­

Dynamite (8 sticks)

2/4/8

5d6 1 $24 4

1

­



SBT; see notes SBT; see notes MBT; see notes LBT; AP 4; HW; see notes

SBT: Small Burst Template. MBT: Medium Burst Template. LBT: Large Burst Template.

57
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

Melee Weapons

Weapon

Dmg

Wt

Price

Brass Knuckles

Str+d4

1

$1

Club

Str+d4

1

­

Club, War

Str+d6

3

$3

Club, War (Bladed)

Str+d8

6

$8



Knife

Str+d4

1

$2

Knife, Bowie

Str+d4+1

2

$4

Lariat

­

3

$4



Rapier

Str+d4

3

$10

Saber

Str+d6

4

$15

Spear

Str+d6

5

$3



Tomahawk

Str+d6

4

$3

Whip

Str+d4

2

$10



Notes
AP 2; Parry ­1; Requires 2 hands
AP 1 Parry ­1; Reach +2; see notes Parry +1
Parry +1; Reach 1; requires 2 hands
Parry ­1; Reach +2; see notes

Weapon Gatling Pistol (.45) Gatling Rifle (.45) Gatling Shotgun

Gatling Guns

Range 12/24/48 24/48/96 12/24/48

Dmg RoF Cost Wt 2d6+1 2 $800 5
2d8 2 $1200 13 1­3d6 2 $1500 15

Shots 12 12 12

Min Str. Notes -- AP 1 d6 AP 2 d8

Gatling weapons cannot fire single shots and must fire at their full Rate of Fire.

Ammunition

Ammo Arrow Pistol (.22-.38) Pistol (.40-.50) Rifle (.38-.52) Rifle (.56+) Powder & shot Percussion caps Shotgun shells

Number 20 50 50 50 50 20 60 20

Weight 1/5 3/50 5/50 6/50 8/50 4/20 1/60 2/20

Price $2 $2 $3 $4 $5 $1 $.50 $2

58
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

do this, they need to buy basic supplies equal to half the cost of the finished device. Building the device requires a number of days equal to the finished cost divided by 10. Up to four assistants can aid in the construction--provided each has Repair of at least d6--thus reducing the time needed (divide the base time by the total number of people working on the device, including the scientist).
At the end of the time required, the scientist must make a Weird Science roll to determine the quality of the finished product. On a success, the device works exactly as listed. On a raise, the device only suffers a malfunction on a critical failure (there's no additional effect for devices that work this way already). On a failure, the time is lost, but the materials may be reused on another attempt to build the same device. On a critical failure, roll as per a malfunction for the device. Regardless of the results, both the time and materials used are lost.
Malfunctions
Malfunctions work differently in the Weird West than described in Savage Worlds thanks to the instability of ghost rock, or the hurried nature of the construction. When a character using a gizmo or infernal device rolls 1 on his trait die (regardless of the result of the Wild Die), be that the scientist's Weird Science skill, or a skill appropriate to the device, it malfunctions spectacularly.
Gizmos explode, release noxious fumes, or otherwise cause harm in a Medium Burst Template for 2d6 damage. Infernal devices have specific malfunction results listed in their description.
If this sounds incredibly unpredictable, guess what--it is! Just remember that you

Gea r and Goods
can always spend a Fate Chip to reroll. This eliminates the 1 and gives you a second chance to avoid the big boom noise (assuming of course you don't roll another 1, but nobody's that unlucky, right?).
Regardless of the specific malfunction, the device is ruined until repaired, which typically takes 2d6 hours and a Repair roll by someone with the Arcane Background (Weird Science) Edge.
Buying Infernal Devices
Despite the inherent dangers, many a brave (or foolhardy) gunhand employs infernal devices and elixirs for that extra edge. While these items are not available for purchase at your average general store or apothecary, they can be ordered direct from Smith & Robards.
Smith & Robards' home office is located in Salt Lake City, Utah, with regional offices found in Denver, Dodge, and Virginia City. These secondary locations do not sell "off the lot" and they don't appreciate visitors. Any purchases must be ordered from the home office. Smith & Robards requires payment in advance for purchases, and shipping usually takes about a week (two to Dodge) by rail. Delivery can be made in the field via ornithopter or steam wagon as well. This costs an extra dollar per pound delivered, with a minimum fee of $1,000, but generally takes only 1d20 hours.
Since research and development of these items takes months or years, S&R doesn't do custom orders.
S & R Catalog
The following items are those most commonly ordered from the factories of Smith & Robards.

59
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Auto-Gyro
Cost: $8,000 For those more interested in speed of travel than comfort, S&R engineered the incredible auto-gyro. This vehicle is propelled by a steam-powered air screw. As the auto-gyro moves forward, the air washing over it spins the blades of the upper lift fan and elevates the vehicle off the ground. The auto-gyro has room enough for two people. Acc/Top Speed: 15/30; Toughness: 8 (2); Crew: 2; Cost: $8,000 Notes: Piloting ­2 in rough conditions; travels approximately 50 miles on one pound of ghost rock.

Malfunction: On a roll of a 1 on the Piloting die (regardless of the result of any Wild Die), the ghost rock boiler explodes, causing 3d10 damage to everyone in a Large Burst Template (including those aboard and the vehicle itself). Falling damage may also apply.
Bullet Proof Vest
Cost: $1,800
Smith & Robards makes an armored vest that not only deflects most small arms fire, but is light enough to wear in the heat of the West. The vest is infused with ghost steel shavings that provide +2 protection to anybody who wears it. This weighs only 10 pounds. A heavier vest is also available that provides +4 protection, but it weighs 20 pounds. Both vests protect only the torso. Donning or removing the vest requires an action.
Malfunction: Of all the devices S&R produces, the vest is among the safest. Occasional accidents have been reported, however. If the wearer ever rolls snake eyes on a soak roll, the damage ignites the ghost steel shavings in the vest, causing 2d10 damage to the wearer immediately and a further 2d6 damage each round until he takes it off.
Epitaph Camera
Cost: $1,600
The Tombstone Epitaph publishes weekly reports of bizarre creatures and events, few of which are taken seriously by sensible folk. A picture, however, would be worth a thousand words, but any sort of movement ruins pictures taken by most cameras.
Smith & Robards overcame this limitation by mixing powdered ghost rock with the emulsifier that coats photographic plates. These plates are incompatible with standard cameras,

60
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

and require an "Epitaph" camera to properly record an image.
The camera is so named because upon its availability, the Epitaph immediately adopted it for all photographic images published in the paper. Unfortunately, the very success of these cameras causes skeptics to believe the images are faked.
Heroes use Smarts to take photo graphs. Plates for these cameras are more expensive than regular photog raphic plates, at $5 a pop.
Malfunction: On a roll of a 1 on the Smarts die (regardless of the result of any Wild Die), the camera's ghost rock plates explode, causing 2d4 damage in a Small Burst Template.
Flamethrower
Cost: $2,000
Smith & Robards' flamethrowers use the standard rules for such weapons in the Savage Worlds rules. They have 30 shots. In a clever marketing move, S&R only recommends their proprietary incendiary mix, meaning that to refuel the flamethrower, a cowpoke has to find an S&R stockist, or risk a substitute fuel. The real mix costs $90 per tankful.
Malfunction: On a roll of a 1 on the Shooting die (regardless of the result of any Wild Die), the device explodes, causing 3d10 damage to everyone in a Medium Burst Template and likely setting the victims alight as well (see the rules for fire in Savage Worlds)!
Gatling Weapons (Personal)
Cost: Varies
Personal Gatling weapons are becoming more common in the Weird West. The Agency is widely known to issue these weapons to their operatives.

Gea r and Goods
See the table on page 58 for details of these devices.
Malfunction: On a roll of a 1 on the Shooting die (regardless of the result of any Wild Die), the user spins about wildly, spraying bullets everywhere. Treat this as a Suppressive Fire attack against everyone in a Large Burst Template centered on the user. The weapon can't injure more victims than it has bullets remaining.
Ghost Rock Detector
Cost: $2,500 Highly complex and incredibly expensive, the ghost rock detector is an ingenious machine that analyzes the atmosphere for ghost rock vapor.
A successful Weird Science roll detects the presence of ghost rock in a 100 yard radius. A Notice roll (­4) once per day detects the seam of ghost rock, which can then be mined. A raise on the Weird Science roll narrows the distance down to 50 yards and reduces the Notice roll penalty to ­2 .
Malfunction: On a roll of a 1 on the Weird Science die (regardless of the result of any Wild Die), the device gives false readings, detecting ghost rock everywhere the posse travels.
Greased Lightning Pills
Cost: $75/dose Concocted for gunslingers looking for an edge in a fight, these pills stimulate the nervous system, speeding nerve impulses dramatically, and granting the pistolero preternatural reflexes.
Whenever a character affected by these pills is dealt an 8 or less in combat, he may discard that card and draw again, keeping the best of his draws. This effect lasts until the user is dealt a Joker, or the end of a combat.

61
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
62
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Malfunction: A bad patch of pills slows the reflexes. For each dose taken, the recipient must make a Vigor roll. On a 1 (regardless of the result of any Wild Die), he does not gain the usual benefit, but instead is dealt two cards each round, and acts on the lower of the two. Further, if the user has any Edges that modify initiative cards, they are nullified. This effect lasts until the user is dealt a Joker, or the end of a combat.
Restoration Elixir
Cost: $150/dose
A good long plug of S&R's patented Restoration Elixir cures what ails you. After taking a draught, a cowpoke immediately regains any lost Fatigue levels and may make an immediate Vigor roll to recover wounds as if healing naturally, regardless of whether he suffered the wounds within the last hour. He ignores wound penalties for this roll.
Malfunction: For each dose taken, the recipient must make a Vigor roll. On a 1 (regardless of the result of any Wild Die), the elixir burns going down, and lights a fire in the cowpoke's belly as well. He immediately suffers 2d6 damage.
Rocket Pack
Cost: $2,100
The buffalo soldiers stationed at Fort Apache, New Mexico, were the constant targets of Apache ambushes. Their commander was browsing through the latest S&R catalog when he spotted this brand new device and used his own personal fortune to order five. He assigned them to the best men of his regiment, an elite squad that soon became known as the "Flying Buffaloes."
The rocket pack can lift up to 300 pounds (plus the weight of the pack) for 20 minutes per one-pound chunk

Gea r and Goods
of ghost rock. When the fuse atop it is lit, a ghost rock rod at the center of the pack ignites, heating the water inside the boiler. The steam pushes the wearer into the air, and he can control the thrust by venting extra steam from large panels on either side.
The rocket's Pace is 20", and moving vertically costs 2" per 1" climbed. The user can safely descend at his normal Pace.
Malfunction: If a 1 is rolled on the pilot's Piloting die while making a maneuver (regardless of the result of any Wild Die), the pack explodes, causing 3d10 damage to everyone in a Medium Burst Template. Falling damage may also apply.
Steam Wagon
Cost: $1,500
When Mormons first settled Salt Lake City, they found the surrounding Salt Flats alive with Utah rattlers. Crossing this dangerous terrain was one of their most perilous trials. In 1870, Professor Darius Hellstromme arrived and offered them the secret to a new invention: the steam wagon.
This steam-powered, horseless car riage can dash across the Salt Flats in no time. These contraptions don't work well in uneven terrain and can't enter rocky areas at all, but on the wide open plain, they outpace a horse over long distances.
The vehicles gained such notoriety that bandits in Nevada and other relatively flat areas began using them to hold up trains. Some of these desperadoes even mount Gatling guns on their steam wagons.
Acc/Top Speed: 5/15; Toughness: 10 (3); Crew: 4; Cost: $1,500 Notes: Driving ­2 in rough terrain; Travels approximately 60 miles on one pound of ghost rock.

63
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Malfunction: The ghost rock boiler explodes, causing 3d10 damage to everyone in a Large Burst Template (including those aboard, and the vehicle itself).
Vocal Unction Elixir
Cost: $50/dose This soothing throat syrup tightens (or relaxes) the vocal cords, bringing them to the perfect pitch for pleasing speech. It's a favorite among singers

and thespians--who rely on their vocal talents for their livelihoods, as well as politicians--who like the sound of their own voices to begin with!
Upon imbibing this elixir, the drinker gains +2 Charisma for the next hour.
Malfunction: If the user rolls a 1 on his Persuasion skill die while benefiting from the effects of this elixir (regardless of the result of any Wild Die), his voice becomes hard and hoarse for the next 24 hours instead, giving him Charisma ­2.

64
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Setting Rules

Some things work differently in the Weird West. The setting rules in this chapter give Deadlands its hot and spicy flavor.
Mix two parts savagery with one part weird, simmer on a howling fire stoked by ghost rock, and you'll see exactly why some call it the "Savage West."

Grit
Grit is a measure of your hero's will power, as well as his experience with the more horrific foes found on the dark prairie. Rookie heroes are as likely as not to skedaddle from some of the weirder varmints out there, while old hands are liable to look the creature straight in the face and spit in its eye.
Wild Cards have one point of Grit per Rank, unless they've taken an Edge or Hindrance that modifies Grit. Each point of Grit adds +1 to the character's Guts rolls. You may think that's great, but you should know that most areas in the Weird West inflict a serious penalty.
There's more information on all this in the Marshal's Handbook. For now, all you players need to know is that a high Grit score helps your cowpoke keep his head when the going gets weird. A smart sodbuster might just run away anyway, or he could lose his head in a more literal fashion.
Fate Chips
Rather than use regular bennies, Dead lands uses colored poker chips we call Fate Chips. When playing Deadlands, any

references to bennies in Savage Worlds refer to Fate Chips instead.
At the start of each game, the Marshal puts 20 white, 10 red, and five blue poker chips into a hat, cup, or other container-- called the "Fate Pot." Each player, witho ut looking, draws as many chips as his character is allowed--usually three. The Marshal does the same, drawing one for each player in the game, to use for the bad guys. When Marshal-controlled Wild Cards turn up in the game, he draws two extra chips from the Fate Pot for each.
Fate Chips come in three colors because each grants a different benefit. Regard less of color, all allow you to attempt a Vigor roll to soak damage or remove a Shaken condition as usual.
All Fate Chips are thrown back in the pot at the end of each session, so you may as well use 'em up, amigo. What else are they good for?
Glad you asked.
White
If you're lucky and you live long enough, compadre, you'll see a lot of these. White Fate Chips are the most common sort and act just like regular bennies. So if you spend one, you get to reroll a trait roll and keep the best result.

65
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

All the usual Savage Worlds rules on bennies apply to white Fate Chips.
Red
A red chip allows you to roll a d6 and add it to your current total (this die can Ace as usual). This negates a critical failure from rolling a 1 on your skill die, should that be an issue. Or you can choose to use a red chip as a white chip.
The bad news is that the Marshal gets a free draw from the Fate Pot for his critters and cowpokes every time you use a red chip. The Marshal does not get a draw if you use a red chip as a white (to reroll, soak a wound, or eliminate a Shaken condition).
Blue
Blue chips work exactly like red chips except for one difference. Using a blue chip doesn't give the bad guys a chip (the Marshal doesn't get a draw), no matter what you use it for.

Legend
There's one more type of chip your posse might see after it becomes a little better acquainted with the Weird West's dark underbelly. These suckers aren't put in the pot when you start the game. They're added when your group beats a really nasty critter of the Weird West and lives to tell about it. The Marshal has the complete info on when to add these to your pot.
Legend chips are one-use affairs-- spend 'em and they're gone--and can be used in one of three ways:
1. They can be used like a blue fate chip, and add +2 to the final total.
2. They can be used to reroll ANY roll--a damage roll, a roll on a table, a mal function check, and so forth.
3. A player can trade in an unplayed Legend chip at the end of a session for an automatic Experience Point.

66
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Gunfights
Combat in the Weird West works as described in the Savage Worlds rules, with only a few exceptions. It doesn't much matter whether you plan to shoot, punch, knife, or otherwise maim your enemy--here's how we do things in the West.
Single-Action and DoubleAction Revolvers
If you're not a gun nut, these terms probably don't mean much to you. Well don't worry, amigo, we've got you covered. Here's what you need to know.
Single-action revolvers require the user to cock the hammer before he can pull the trigger and fire. This means a gunhand can't fire these hoglegs fast enough to use the Double Tap maneuver, but he can fan the hammer (see below).
Double-actions are faster and more relia ble. They allow a gunslinger to simply point and shoot--the weapon's action cocks the hammer for him. These revolvers can't be fanned, but single shots can be fired quickly, allowing the hombre to Double Tap.
Fanning the Hammer
Most folks have trouble enough drawing a bead and hitting a target with a single shot. A few supremely skilled shootists can hit their targets while slapping their gun around like a redheaded stepchild, and in a fraction of the time, to boot.
A gunslinger who wants to "fan the hammer" holds the trigger of a single action pistol down while repeatedly slapping the hammer with his other hand. Assuming his six-gun is fully loaded, he may fire up to six shots in a single action as if taking the Automatic

Setting Rules
Fire maneuver. Each shot suffers a ­4 Shooting modifier, but what you lose in accuracy you more than make up for in getting lead in the air!
Just watch who's about when you're fanning the hammer, partner. If your Shooting die comes up 1 or 2, there's a chance you hit an Innocent Bystander (see the Savage Worlds rules).
Reloading
Most guns in the Weird West have to be reloaded the old-fashioned way: one bullet at a time. No, tenderfoot, that doesn't mean you spend six rounds filling your hogleg. It does mean that if you empty your weapon, you have to spend a little time digging bullets out and shoving `em in your gun. Any time your firearm runs out of ammo, your hero must spend an action reloading. He can still shoot in the same round, but he takes a ­2 multi-action penalty to his Shooting roll.

67
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Weapons with Reload 2 or more work as described in Savage Worlds. And before you ask--no, you can't take a multi-action penalty and get all the actions done in a single turn. But nice try, amigo, you'll go far in the Weird West!
Duels
Ask most folks about the Law of the West, and they'll tell you good and decent folk observe frontier justice. In other words, if a fella steps outta line, he may not need to wait for the law to settle his hash, since his neighbor might just decide to do it for him. This attitude, along with an unspoken code of honor among gunfighters, often leads to that classic western scene--the shootout at High Noon.
In these duels, each combatant waits for the other to go for his gun before drawing and firing. You see, if you just skin your hogleg and shoot someone, it's murder; if he draws first, it's selfdefense. Believe it or not, there's some sense of law and order, even here in the Weird West.
The idea is to goad your opponent into going for his gun first, then draw

and fire yours before him. That way you can kill the son-of-a-gun all nice and legal-like. Of course, it's a risky game giving another gunfighter this kind of advantage, but getting the other guy to throw down is the only way to be sure you stay out of the hoosegow.
Dueling isn't just a matter of drawing your gun and popping the cowpoke who called you a cheat. Dueling is an almost sacred event. You see, once the two gunslingers stalk into the street and face off, something strange happens. Time seems to stop, as if nothing else matters but the contest of nerves and lead about to take place in the street--a battle in which one of the protagonists will likely die.
The high stakes involved make dueling a tense and dangerous event. Men may enjoy watching the spectacle of two gunslingers squaring off, but few have the guts or the skill to participate. It takes a fast hand to gain an advantage in a duel, and in the midst of the smoke and the lead, the Devil gets his due.
If all this isn't your particular brand of beans, friend, you'd better think twice before calling a gambler a cheat or get ting over-charming with his special lady friend. A western duel is no place for the

68
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

gun-shy, and if you're not looking for a terminal case of lead poisoning, you'd better make your apologies and leave.
The Quick and the Dead
Once the time for backing out has passed, the gunslingers hit the street and face off. Unless the duelists have agreed on something unusual, they start a short distance apart (typically the limit of Short Range for whichever of the duelists' hand cannons has the lowest range).
Fingers flex, eyes lock, and maybe even a few cutting remarks are exchanged as the duelists steel themselves for that snake-reflex draw that means the difference between life and death.
For all the show and bravado, the stages of a duel are simple. Just follow the steps below.
1. Face Off
Each duelist is dealt two cards face down. These are your hole cards: you can look at them, but you shouldn't show your opponent. Some Edges add to the number of hole cards a pistoleer gets, so be wary of a gunslinger with a fist full of cards!
Next comes the Face Off, a special Test of Wills, representing the participants eyeballing and bad-mouthing each other. Each duelist makes a single Intimidation (the hard stare) or Taunt (trying to unnerve his opponent with trash talk) roll opposed by his rival's skill. Duelists don't have to use the same skill--Intimidation versus Taunt rolls are fine, and represent different ways of preparing for death. Ideally, the player should adopt a steely stare for the duration of the duel, or come up with a suitable insult. This isn't a normal Test of Wills, however--the winner doesn't get a bonus to his action, and the loser can't be Shaken.

Setting Rules
Tactical Dueling
So, what's the best approach to the ultimate western show-down?
Ideally, you should call for the shot as soon as you get a hand, hoping your opponent has nothing. Waiting for better cards can get you killed real quick.
Okay, so your hole cards might be poor, but any kind of hand is better than none at all, and you may be able to do enough damage without a really good hand.
You might want to wait to get a better hand. Maybe the next card raises your measly Two Pairs to Three of a Kind. Big bonuses! Well, not if allowing your opponent to see the card enabled him to make his Flush.
If you can't make a hand, however, it's worth waiting, even until the final card on the table is flipped (assuming your rival lets you get that far). Why? Because the more cards that are revealed the more chance you have of getting a better hand. Of course, your opponent is thinking the same thing.
Hey, no one ever said dueling was easy. You need to decide on the approach that best suits your character, then skin that smokewagon and go to work!

69
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
70
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

If the rolls are tied, each duelist is dealt an extra hole card and the roll is made again. The Face Off continues until one of the participants falters and his nerve fails. The strain is too much for the loser to bear and he reaches for his guns...and time seems to stand still. Whatever the outcome of the duel, any bystanders will testify they saw the loser of the Face Off move first. What's more, the loser suffers a ­2 penalty on his Shooting roll in step 4, below.
Example: Two tough hombres, Zeke and English Dave decide to settle their differences like men and face off in the street. They each get dealt two hole cards face down. Dave gets a pair of Eights; Zeke an Ace and a Jack. Feeling confident, Zeke opts to use his Taunt skill and rolls a 4. Dave remains silent, using Intimidation, and rolls 6. Unnerved by Dave's resolve, Zeke goes for his guns!
2. Luck o' the Draw
The Marshal (or a player not involved in the duel, if you prefer) then deals a row of three cards face up on the table. He then deals two more cards face up, one at a time, with a pause in between.
From these face-up cards and the duelists' hole cards, the gunslingers aim to make the best poker hand they can, combining at least two cards from their hand with those revealed on the Marshal's draw.
There's a handy table on page 133 to help you non-gamblin' types decide which hand is best. Jokers are wild, so they can be any card you want, even a duplicate of a card in your hand.
As soon as a duelist thinks he's got a good enough hand, he shouts "SHOOT!" This can be after the first three face-up cards are dealt, or after each of the other two cards.
If neither duelist has chosen to shoot before the last face-up card is dealt, both

Setting Rules
The Art of the Duel
1. Face Off
Deal each duelist two face-down hole cards (adjusting for Edges).
Each duelist rolls Intimidation or Taunt and compares results. If they tie, give each duelist another face-down card and roll again. Otherw ise, remember who wins for Swappin' Lead.
2. Luck o' the Draw
Deal three cards face-up. Either duelist can yell "Shoot!" to go to Reach for It!
Deal another card face-up. Either duelist can yell "Shoot!" to go to Reach for It!
Deal the final face-up card.
3. Reach for It!
Each duelist decides to go for speed or accuracy in Swappin' Lead.
The duelists show the best fivecard poker hand they can make from the face-up cards and at least two of their hole cards. Remember, Jokers are wild!
4. Swappin' Lead
A duelist can only fire a single shot: no Double Taps or Fannin'. Whoever lost the Face Off suffers a ­2 to his Shooting roll. The duelist with the better poker hand adds 1d6 to damage for each rank over his opponent (e.g., a Flush against Two Pairs adds +3d6 damage).
All shots for speed are resolved at ­2 unless the duelist has the Quick Draw Edge (­0) or a quick-draw hol ster (­1).
All shots for accuracy are resolved if necessary.
If anyone's still alive, go to combat!

71
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

have to draw once the card is revealed, regardless of how good their best hand is. These fellas are here to gun each other down, after all!
The first three cards come up. Ace. Eight. Eight. A wicked grin spreads across Zeke`s face and he calls, "Shoot!" He doesn't know what cards Dave has, but he's feeling mighty confident with a pair of Aces and a pair of Eights.
3. Reach for It!
Each cowpoke (starting with whoever lost the Face Off) now has to decide whether to go for speed or accuracy. Just like in regular combat, a duelist can choose to draw and shoot in a single action (taking a ­2 penalty to his Shooting roll in the next step) or can take things slower and hope to hit his mark instead. Remember that the loser of the duel's Face Off is already at ­2 for being unnerved, so if he goes for speed, he'll be lucky to hit a barn door!
With the preliminaries out of the way, it's time to show the cards and see who's still standing when the dust settles. Each

duelist reveals his cards and declares his best hand.
Having lost the Face Off, Zeke has to choose first whether to go for speed or accuracy. He knows he's going to have to swallow a ­2, but with d12 Shooting he's not concerned. He goes for speed, pushing his ­2 penalty up to ­4! Dave, the cooler head, opts to take his time, giving Zeke first shot. If he had also chosen to go for speed, Zeke and Dave would have fired simultaneously (Dave on a ­2, and Zeke on a ­4). Then both gunslingers turn over their cards, and Zeke's smile fades as he sees his two pair beaten by English Dave's four of a kind.
4. Swappin' Lead
This is the important part, friend, where the metal meets the meat! Any duelists who chose to go for speed get to fire a single shot now (you don't get to fan the hammer just yet, amigo). If both shooters opt for speed, the shots are simultaneous (so it doesn't matter who rolls first). He makes a Shooting roll as normal, modified by ­2 for drawing and shooting at once. This means that

72
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

the gunfighter who lost the Face Off is at ­4 if he opts to shoot at speed. The Quick Draw Edge works as normal here, ignoring the ­2 for opting to draw and shoot, while a quick-draw holster reduces the penalty to ­1.
Assuming he hits, the duelist now gets to roll damage. Dueling damage works slightly differently than regular ranged combat. The cowpoke rolls his weapon damage, plus an extra d6 for each rank his cards are higher than his opponent (see the table on page 133). So a cowpoke with a Flush against an opponent with a measly Two Pairs would get an extra 3d6 damage, all of which can Ace!
Any participants who opted for accuracy over speed (assuming they're still capable of breathing if their opponent chose to draw and shoot) get to fire next. This is handled in exactly the same way as above. Again, all shooters who opted for accuracy fire simultaneously and can be resolved in any order.
Zeke shoots first, but a 7 on his Shooting die isn't good enough with the

Setting Rules
­4 penalty, and his Wild Die comes up 1, so that's no help. English Dave takes his shot and hits with a raise. He's rolling 2d6 for his hogleg, plus 1d6 for the raise and 5d6 for the card hand being so much better than Zeke's! He Aces on five of his dice and Zeke groans...they don't call it the Dead Man's Hand for nothing! Should the duelists still be on their feet when the smoke clears, deal out initiative cards and move to standard combat rounds to finish the fight. Remember, whoever drew first is also going to have to deal with the full weight of the local law coming down on his shoulders.
Gambling
The rules presented in Savage Worlds under the Gambling skill work just fine for nearly any game of chance you can conceive, but they do it in shorthand.
That's fine most of the time. But sometimes, given the Weird West's focus on poker and other card games, you

73
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
might want to get a little more involved with your gamblin', even if you don't want to play a full-blown game of poker. That's when this system comes in real handy, amigo.
It works almost exactly the same as Duelin', but uses only the first two steps--Face Off and Luck o' the Draw. Up to five or six hombres can participate instead of just two.
Instead of rolling Intimidation or Taunt, each player makes a Gambling roll during the Face Off (modified as usual for those who cheat). Each player is dealt one card for each success and raise on the Gambling roll.
Everyone looks at their hand, and has the opportunity to fold if they wish (but if they do, they lose the stake). Those who stay in attempt to make the best possible poker hand using their cards and the ones dealt onto the table.
The winning hand gets an amount of dollars equal to the stake, multiplied by the Power Point value for that hand (with a Flush worth 7, a Full House 8, and so on). Everyone with a losing hand

pays an amount of dollars equal to the stake times the Power Point value for that hand.
Hanging
Sometimes the law moves too slow to suit people. Sometimes it's just not around at all. At such times, vigilante posses often take care of matters. This usually means chasing the suspect down like an animal. If caught, he'll be guest of honor at a hemp party. That's a hanging for you tinhorns.
If a character is first dropped a few feet (usually from horseback or a gallows), he makes a Vigor roll (­2). Failure means his neck snaps and he's dead! A critical failure does exactly what you might think. Though if you're being hanged, you weren't using that noggin of yours anyway, were you?
Assuming you survive long enough to start worrying about little things like breathing, make a Vigor roll (­4) each minute or suffer a level of Fatigue. Don't worry, Stretch, it won't take long.

74
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

No Man's Land

Lonely hucksters and hickory-swinging preachers screaming fire and brimstone. Brilliant madmen and deadly gunslingers who don't have enough sense to stay dead. These are the secrets of Deadlands. And they're not for the faint of heart.
This section covers material only certain players need to know about. Unless the Marshal told you to crack it open and study up, we suggest you vamoose. Part of the fun of the Weird West is keeping it weird.

Now that we've dealt with the rabble, it's time to fill you in on the most dire details and sacred secrets of the Weird West. If you're still reading, it means your hero fits into one of those categories, and has the inside track on some aspect of what makes the West so darned weird.
What You Know
Most characters who have an Arcane Background of their own (or are Agents or Rangers) know a fair bit about all the other sorts running around out there. Hucksters know blessed have the power of God on their side, for example, and both have a keen insight on how mad scientists got that way.
Once you recognize the supernatural exists, it opens your eyes to other strange ness. So you know weird creatures exist, though you may explain them away as new species just being discovered in this vast land. You also know that there's magic in the world that can be tapped, though again you might explain it away as just another energy source rather than anything "supernatural."

What follows are the basics all chara c ters serving the Agents or the Rangers, Veterans of the Weird West, or heroes possessing an Arcane Background know about their surroundings.
The Reckoning
Being a part of the weirdness in the world, you've heard some rumors about what started it all. You've been told that something called the Reckoning happened on July 4th, 1863, and the received wisdom is there are some sort of dark "gods" behind it, and that they returned magic and monsters to the world. If you don't hold firm to any religious viewpoint, however, you may consider this so much hogwash!
Anything beyond that--including why it all happened or who the "Reckoners" are--is a mystery you'll have to solve as you travel the Weird West. Keep your eyes and ears open, muchacho, the truth is out there.
Whispers that the Reckoners have chosen mortal servants on earth are also fairly common. Some claim famous folks such as Darius Hellstromme are "servitors" of the Reckoners, but there are just as many wild tales about Grant,

75
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Davis, and his replacement being wolves in sheep's clothing, so take such rumors with a grain of salt.
Ghost Rock Ghost rock is a superfuel found in
1868 right after the Great Quake. At first found only in the Maze, it's now been unearthed all over the world.
Conspiracy theorists claim it was placed by the devil to appeal to men's greed and start fights. You may or may not believe that, but it does certainly arise in the damnedest places--like the Black Hills, a sacred site smack in the middle of the Sioux Nations.
Another rumor is that the screaming noise it makes when burned, and the ghostly faces some see in the vapors, are the souls of the damned. Even "mad scientists," who work with the stuff every day, claim that's poppycock, so you'll have to decide for yourself what you believe.
Monsters You know monsters are real, and
you've heard a lot of tales about how to put these creatures down. You know walkin' dead must be shot in the head, for instance, that vampires die with stakes in their heart, and werew olves don't like silver.
Some monsters--like witches--seem to have their own brand of sorcery as well. This is collectively called "black magic," and is not something "heroes" can do. It's quite possible these powers are granted to the horrors of the night directly by the Reckoners.
The Agency & the Rangers Publicly, both the Agency and the
Texas Rangers are in charge of overseeing local lawmen, ferreting out spies from across the border, and protecting their

governments from particularly highlevel threats.
In truth, most everyone with any experience in the Weird West knows them for what they are--monster hunters.
Sure, they do all the things they say in public, but those are usually cover operations to track down some nasty beast.
The bad thing about the Agents and the Rangers--to everyone else-- is that they don't like witnesses. Both organizations believe that spreading tales of monsters will only cause more pain and suffering, and that such negative emotions somehow give the "Reckoners" more power. When a horror raises its ugly head (or heads), the Agents and the Rangers do their level-best to put it down fast, hard, and without the attention of the press--which they both hate (particularly the Tombstone Epitaph, which is more accurate than most believe, but less accurate than it claims).
Arcane Backgrounds
There are a lot of different folk with mystical powers in the Weird West, but they can be grouped together into five broad categories. If you're reading this chapter, you know a bit about all these types.
The blessed are by and large Chris tian preachers, but there are also nuns, monks, and mystics of all den omi nations out there as well. Regardless of their particular faith, the "chosen" of the world's religions often display miracu lous abilities in the face of darkness.
The diversity of those who channel such blessings has sparked quiet debate among scholars that the forces of "good" are a pantheon of all the gods of the world's religions, or more likely, one god known by many names depending on the adherent's religious viewpoint.

76
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

No Man's Land

We'll leave that debate at the door of the local seminary, amigo. All that can be said with any certainty is, "good religions seem to spark the creation of the blessed."
A few individuals who aren't religious have displayed the powers of the blessed as well. Some are even surly cusses who are about as personally wholesome as cheesecloth. Padres simply smile and say the Lord works in mysterious ways when questioned about such seeming contradictions. The Almighty's plan usually centers on Saints, but sometimes Sinners are chosen to serve as well.
Hucksters are the wizards of the Weird West. They cast spells by making

bets with unseen spirits for little bits of their ethereal power. When they win, they cast powerful spells that can send a flurry of cards to cut a man to ribbons, or make an infernal device pop its rivets and stop working.
When they lose, hucksters pay a heavy price--a little piece of their mind, body, or soul. This is called "backlash," and it's not something you want to be near when it happens.
Mad scientists didn't get their name because they're angry. Like hucksters, they make deals with spirits for techno logical secrets, or to infuse otherwise ordinary contraptions with bits of sup ern atural power. Unlike hucksters,

77
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
the vast majority of mad scientists live in denial, either believing their gizmos are perfectly rational, or that they've tapped into a heretofore undiscovered energy source.
When their infernal devices work-- flamethrowers, steam wagons, X-ray specs, personal Gatlings, and the like-- the results are impressive. When they malfunction, the results are spectacular. As in the Fourth of July. Most gizmos use ghost rock in some way or another, so smart sodbusters give these explosionprone inventors a wide berth.
Martial artists are no doubt the least understood of all those who have found some way to tap into the world's eldritch forces. The Agency has begun studying them in earnest, and has a theory that those who master their inner "chi" have learned to channel arcane energies directly through their bodies, rather than making deals with demons as mad scientists and hucksters are known to do.

The Harrowed
The beings known as the Harrowed are by far the most dangerous paranormal players in these dark times.
These once-ordinary men and women have returned from the dead and are animated by dark spirits that dwell within them. The evil spirits imbue the walking corpse with supernatural powers beyond mortal ability, making the Harrowed a mean breed. The human soul still seems to exist in their desiccated shells as well and appears to be in control most of the time. There are frequent stories of the "manitous" inside taking over their hosts for limited periods, however, and committing the most heinous acts imaginable, all while wearing their host's skin.
Some say the hosts aren't aware what's happening when the demon is in charge--others think it's a convenient excuse for a lack of willpower.

78
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

On With the Show
The following sections are meant only for those who plan on playing a character with an Arcane Background, a Texas Ranger, or an Agent. You can't choose to play a Harrowed character, though--that's just something that can happen to you during play.
It's your book, of course, and you're welcome to read them all, but part of the fun of a horror game is slowly learning about the unknown. We highly recommend reading the section above to get a good idea what you want to play, then reading only the corresponding rules found on the following pages.
The Secret Services
If you're an Agent or a Texas Ranger, you have two roles. The public role is something like a national policeman. Your real role is to hunt the things that go bump in the night.
If you're playing either an Agent or a Ranger, you can read this entire section (meaning Agents can read the Ranger's info, and Rangers can read Agent's info). These two organizations know each other very well.
The Agency
The Agency is the Union's elite secret investigations squad. In Union states and territories, the organization is responsible for rooting out sedition, sabotage, and espionage, while Agents in the South have formed an extensive spy network within the Confederacy.
That said, intelligence gathering and counterintelligence operations are only one facet of the Agency's duties. Everyone

No Man's Land
knows Agents get up to some pretty sneaky stuff. What folks don't realize is that the Agency also investigates paranormal incidents that occur on Union soil. No Agent ever admits this publicly, of course. In fact, Agents are under orders to hide their association with the shadowy organization!
Top Secret
The reasons for this secrecy are pretty obvious. First, Agents on intelligence gathering missions in the South are constantly at risk of exposure, and brazenly advertising their association with the Northern government is liable to get them hanged. Despite the ceasefire, tensions are high and Agents who know what's good for them leave any Agency identification north of the Mason-Dixon Line.
Even when Agents are on assignment in Union territory, only rarely do they resort to flashing the badge. The Agency thrives on secrecy, and no Agent likes tipping his hand unless it's absolutely necessary, especially when investigating spies and saboteurs.
Even more importantly, the Agency's standard operating procedure with regard to the supernatural requires discretion. Most Agents, after an encounter with the supernatural, simply prefer to destroy any evidence of the occurrence and slip out of town with none the wiser. Advertising one's presence is a sure way to get the locals to start asking questions, and if there's one thing an Agent hates, it's answering questions.
If an agent is pinned down--a witness observes him staking a vampire, for example, or burning down a zombieinfested funeral home--only then will he show his credentials. Usually, he then "explains" that he has been in pursuit of enemies of the Union, and implies that

79
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
80
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

the security of the nation relies on the witness' ability to keep his yap shut.
The Mnemomizer
Recently, Agents of Security Level 4 and higher have been issued a new device, called (by those who can pronounce it) the Mnemomizer. This small, palmsized, silver globe opens when certain panels are pressed in the right order (to prevent others from using it or it going off while in an Agent's pocket).
Activating the device requires a successful Smarts roll from the Agent. When activated, the front of the globe opens and sends out a flash of green radiation in an arc the size of half a Medium Burst Template. Everyone within the arc must make a Smarts roll (­4). Those who fail are incredibly susceptible to suggestion for about 10 seconds. This gives the Agent a few moments to help the victims "remember" what they saw in a different light.
The only problem with the Mnemo mizer is that it's very expensive to use and requires a one-ounce chunk of ghost rock per use (which costs about $6.25 in most places). It's also prone to malfunction. Should the Agent's Smarts roll fail, the ghost rock charge is simply used up with no effect. A roll of snake eyes means it actually "explodes" in a flash of radioactive energy that sears the eyes out of everyone within the template--the entire template, including the "back half" where the user was standing. Use it sparingly, Agent.
The Texas Rangers
The Confederacy relies entirely on the military to do its interstate policing in the West. Regiments scattered

No Man's Land
through the Rebel states and territories have always held jurisdiction over local law. Of these units, one in particular has free reign over the entire Southwest--the Texas Rangers. These folks fought as regulars in the early years of the war, but they were later detached from the regular military to serve as a mounted police force.
When the Rangers were first assigned the job of policing the Confederacy, it included both mundane criminals and the more bizarre variety. That said, your average Confederate citizen has no idea the Rangers have another job--monster hunting! Further, the Texas Rangers are required to suppress the truth about such events, in order to quell the spread of fear among the Confederate population.
Though the Rangers' responsibilities are much like those of their northern counterparts, the Agency, the Rangers have quite a bit more leeway in the field. They often operate independently for months at a time, prowling the West in search of their quarry.
The Rangers' unspoken motto is "shoot it or recruit it." Many of the supernatural forces of the Reckoning-- including hucksters and Harrowed, for

81
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

must wire the home office in Austin, and hope one of the "researchers"--that'd be Rangers retired by their injuries--can dig up the information they need.

example--can be turned against the horrific creatures that have sprung up in its wake. That said, the moment one of these allies of convenience turns against a Ranger, the lawman is more than ready to put it in the ground.
The Ranger's Bible
Upon recruitment, each Ranger is given a copy of the book, Fugitives from Justice in the Confederacy, more commonly known as the Ranger's Bible. This book details known habits and haunts of criminals wanted all over the South.
Higher-ranking Rangers have a more complete version of this book, which includes the fabled Chapter 13. This is generally only awarded to those with a Colonel's rank or greater. It reports some of the weird and unexplainable events Rangers have encountered over the years, beginning in 1863. This includes both a bestiary of the more common supernatural critters that have popped up across the West, as well as a rogue's gallery of supernatural threats-- including anyone from hucksters to Harrowed, black magicians to secretive cults.
Most Rangers know Chapter 13 exists, but not its contents. When faced with some bad supernatural mojo, Rangers who don't yet rate a copy of the chapter

The Blessed
The blessed are those chosen by the divine beings of "goodness" as their champions. Yes, there are divine beings of goodness in Deadlands, they just have to work through humanity rather than clash with evil themselves. We don't make the cosmic rules, amigo, we just tell you about 'em.
Faith
Most folks on the frontier pay lip service to God (or Allah, or the Spirits, or whoever drives the wagon in their particular hallelujah hayride), but they don't really stop sinning unless they're about to meet him face to face.
A few chosen souls are nobler. They live the ideals of their faith and are beacons of hope for others. These are collectively called the "blessed." Not all blessed are preachers or nuns. The Lord truly works in mysterious ways, and sometimes the most ornery cusses seem to inherit the divine wind, so to speak, while the local padre can't even light a candle without a match.
Sometimes blessings are bestowed because the soul beneath the surface is pure, other times because a particular person just happens to fit the Almighty's divine--though often obscure--plan.
To do this, the Powers That Be give their chosen access to minor miracles. The blessed don't learn a list of specific powers by rote in the way that hucksters and other types do. There is no list of available hexes or blueprints to gizmos that give blessed heroes guaranteed results, and they can't learn how to

82
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

perform miracles from other holy rollers. When it comes to moving in mysterious ways, it's just between the blessed and his lord.
Playing a Blessed
To join the ranks of the blessed, your character must take the Arcane Background (Miracles) Edge and put a few points into the blessed's arcane skill, Faith. Miracles work a little differently in Deadlands from what is described in Savage Worlds, so pay attention. First of all, you don't have any Power Points; you don't need any (you'll see why soon, padre). So you can't take any Edges that relate to the use or restoration of Power Points. Secondly, calling down a miracle is a different process.
Using Miracles
So you wanna call down the thunder, padre? Well, first you have to decide what you want to achieve. Blessed characters in Deadlands don't choose starting powers like those with other Arcane Backgrounds. Likewise, you can't choose the New Power Edge. Instead, you can attempt to petition your lord for any power available to the blessed (see page 134). If your prayers are answered, your power takes effect. That's right, your reverence, you don't have to worry about Power Points, you just have to pray real hard!
Name the power you're trying to create and tell the Marshal what Rank it is. Your blessed hero says a short prayer and you make a Faith roll. Modify the roll by ­2 per Rank (­2 for Novice powers, ­4 for Seasoned, and so on). The Marshal can apply an additional negative modifier if he feels what you are praying for runs contrary to the tenets of your belief, so be careful what you pray for!
A blessed hero cannot maintain a power beyond its base duration, but

No Man's Land
if they get a raise on the Faith roll, the power's duration is doubled (this has no effect on Instant, Concentration, and Permanent powers).
If the roll is successful, your prayers are answered and the power takes effect as desired. On a failure, the power has no effect and the blessed gains a Fatigue level. Fatigue gained in this way can only be removed by several hours' quiet contemplation (three hours per Fatigue level) or a good night's sleep.
Blessed with the Holy Warrior Edge activate it as a Novice Rank power. Also, the Edge works against characters with Arcane Background (Black Magic).
Crisis of Faith
If the Faith die comes up 1 (regardless of the result of the Wild Die), your hero suffers a crisis of faith.
His prayers are ignored and his Faith die type is reduced by 1 until the next time he successfully performs a miracle. If his Faith die would ever be reduced below d4 in this way, the blessed has lost his faith. He can no longer perform miracles and must find some way to ease his doubts.
Much like atonement for a mortal sin, this usually takes the form of a spiritual quest to restore the blessed to his devout ways, performing a truly selfless act, converting a tribe of heathens, showing courage in defending the faith, and suchlike. The Marshal does not have to tell you what is required. It is up to the wayward soul to rediscover his faith, at which time he can once again perform miracles.
Sin
Furthermore, the blessed must also make their lives an example to others, and abstain from sinful ways. The information on what constitutes a sin to Christians--the most common religion

83
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
84
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

on the frontier--is a good guide for what rules apply to other denominations.

Sinnin' Severity Minor
Major
Mortal

Example
Taking the Lord's name in vain, getting drunk, lying, refusing aid to those in need, envying another's possessions.
Theft, turning away from those in dire need, failing to take communion (for a Catholic).
Adultery, killing other than in self-defense, blas phemy (denial of faith).

New Edges
The blessed are the soldiers of God-- by whatever name they know him (or them)--on the front lines in the battle against evil. As such, their faith must be unshakable. Here are a few blessedspecific Edges to help them fight the good fight.
Conviction Requirements: Novice, Arcane Back
ground (Miracles), Spirit d6+, Faith d6+
Some holy rollers seem to have the ear of the Almighty, and this lucky cuss seems to be just one such individual. He's more successful than most when petitioning the Lord with prayer, and his humble calls for divine assistance are answered regularly.
This hero gains a +2 modifier to all Faith rolls made to call down miracles.
Flock Requirements: Seasoned, Arcane
Background (Miracles), Spirit d8+, Faith d8+

No Man's Land
The greatest prophets and preachers are attended by followers. These men and women have found salvation of one sort or another in the blessed, and devoted their lives to his cause.
Flock gives your padre five followers who serve at his side in whatever capacity you choose. They have the stats of Townsfolk (see the Marshal's Handbook), though they can gain skills just like any other Allies. They come with nothing but the clothes on their back and a few dollars, but can be armed and outfitted however the blessed sees fit.
Members of the Flock who perish are slowly replaced over time (usually by giving a "revival"). The Edge may not be taken more than once until the blessed is Legendary. At that point he may take it as many times as he'd like (as well as the Followers Edge, if he so chooses).
Voodoo
Requirements: Novice, Arcane Background (Miracles), Spirit d8+, Faith d6+
Voodoo works the same as other miracles, it just comes from a different place; powerful spirits named loa. Player character houngans (males) and mambos (females) get their power from rada, the "good guys" in the voodoo religion. (Evil voodooists get their mojo from petro.)
Voodoo priests must prepare their abilities ahead of time in elaborate

85
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Hexslingers
In the original Deadlands book Law Dogs, we introduced the idea of "hexslingers" as a specific subset of hucksters. In Deadlands Reloaded, we've folded that group back into hucksters where they really belong. You'll notice some of the old hexslinger effects, such as the crackling six-gun, in the trappings of huckster spells now.
To be perfectly clear, the terms huckster, hexslinger, wizard, warlock, and spells linger are all interc hangea ble now.

When he wants to call on the power of a loa, the houngan takes an action to use a charm. He hurls a bone as an attack, rubs a cat's tooth for armor, and so on. Then he can make his Faith roll, look for raises, and so on. The charm is used up afterwards. If a voodooist is separated from his charms, he cannot work any miracles.
The upside to the inconvenience of nightly rituals is that Voodoo practi tioners gain access to powers that other blessed characters do not. Most of these powers deal with curses, control, and contacting loas, the bread and butter of Voodoo. The additional powers are curse, fear, mind rider, puppet, vision quest, and zombie.
Finally, a voodoo practitioner is freed from the restrictions of the Sinnin' table. He or she is still fatigued if a power fails, and can still suffer the effects of a crisis of faith like other blessed characters (see page 83), but mambos and houngans are not bound by Christian beliefs.

rituals (this is where all that dancing around the fire and sacrificing chickens comes in). Each night the voodooist must contact the loa and enlist their aid for the day to come. With a Faith of d4, the ritual must last at least four hours. For each die type above d4, the time required is reduced by 30 minutes. So a houngan with Faith d8 must chant and dance for three hours in the evening to be able to call upon the spirits the next day. If the ritual is not completed, the voodooist cannot call on any miracles the next day. During the ritual, the individual's powers are focused into charms--rocks, feathers, chicken bones, and squishy stuff--carried in medicine bags, on a necklace, and so on.

Hucksters
The arcane secrets of casting hexes go back quite a ways. Back in the old days--the really old days, when folks still believed the earth was flat--magic was a lot more common than it is today. For reasons unknown, it began to fade from the world some time toward the end of the Dark Ages. Some of the more powerful magics stuck around for a while longer, but they became the subject of myth and legend as the Age of Reason rolled around.
That said, not all was forgotten. Around 1740, a fellow named Edmund Hoyle wandered Europe, putting some of the pieces back together in the process. He knew that what he learned would probably get him burned at the stake for

86
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

No Man's Land

Poker Hands and Power Points

Hand
Ace High Pair
Jacks or Better Two Pairs
Three of a Kind
Straight
Flush
Full House
Four of a Kind
Five of a Kind
Straight Flush

Cards
One Ace Two cards of the same value A pair of Jacks or better
Two sets of two cards
Three cards of the same value Five sequential cards
Five cards of the same suit
Three cards of one value, two of another Four cards of the same value
Five cards of the same value (requires use of a Joker) Five sequential cards of the same suit

Effect
1 Power Point
2 Power Points (excess Power Points are lost)
3 Power Points (excess Power Points are lost)
4 Power Points (excess Power Points are lost)
5 Power Points (excess Power Points are lost)
6 Power Points (excess Power Points are lost)
Spell goes off with a raise (if possible, otherwise no extra effect)
As flush, and hex Duration is doubled (except Instant hexes)
As flush, and hex Duration is multiplied by 10 (except Instant hexes)
As flush, but the huckster can turn the power on or off at will for 24 hours at no cost
As above, and the huckster draws a Fate Chip from the Fate Pot

87
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

being a witch were he to write it down, so he came up with a cover story for his journal of the arcane. You and I call it Hoyle's Book of Games.
The key to Hoyle's power was communicating with certain mis chievous spirits--he called them "Jokers" to confuse the uninitiated--and besting them in mental duels. He would wager some of his soul against a Joker's power, and if he won, he could force the Joker to carry out some task.
Hoyle eventually refined his mental duels by visualizing them as hands of poker. Poker was relatively new at the time, and quickly became Hoyle's game of choice whenever he cast his hexes.
The 1769 edition of Hoyle's Book of Games contains these secrets in their purest form. A proper reading of the complex bridge diagrams, numeric codes written into card play examples, and sample

scores that litter the book can uncover secrets beyond imagining. Later editions of this arcane tome exist, though they are not as complete; unknowing editors often ruined the arcane formulae in the process of reorganizing and republishing the manuscript.
Hoyle's Hucksters
Those who knew the secrets of Hoyle's Book of Games were rarely able to muster much in the way of power. The Jokers seemed rare as hen's teeth, especially those strong enough to accomplish powerful magic. Then, in 1863, something changed. Suddenly, the world was flooded with spirits, including Jokers, and it was much easier to make use of Hoyle's formulae.
"Witches" and "warlocks" are still considered evil by most folks, and a dabbler in the so-called "dark arts" had

88
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

best keep his hobbies private. Otherwise, he risks being the guest of honor at a necktie party. What's more, there are more than a few stories of sorcerous types being hunted by the Agency, the Texas Rangers, and even overzealous preachers with a few mystical powers of their own.
These wizards of the Weird West call themselves "hucksters" after the snakeoil salesmen who so successfully pull the wool over the public's eyes. Other terms were borrowed from the Indians, who have a different view of the supernatural. Jokers became "manitous," and the supernatural plane they call home became the "Hunting Grounds."
Being a huckster isn't easy. The would-be warlock must first learn to communicate with the manitous. This is easier said than done, especially since the huckster is trying to do more than scream at the spirits to leave him alone (like most well-balanced folks would do in the same circumstances).
Assuming he's successful, the huckster must then tempt the manitou into a game of wits. The game takes place in the Hunting Grounds, and may seem to take seconds, hours, or even days. In the real world, however, it takes only a few seconds; a really good (and lucky) huckster can have a manitou licked fast enough to beat a gunslinger in a fair draw.
Everything to Lose
This contest between hucksters and manitous is entirely cerebral, but most hucksters visualize the process as some sort of game. The vast majority "play" poker, though a few play cribbage, rummy, or mahjong. Hell, a huckster could visualize the contest as a game of tiddlywinks if he wanted to (though he'd best not tell anyone). At any rate, if the

No Man's Land
huckster wins, the manitou is forced to do his bidding.
Manitous cannot normally affect the physical world directly, so the huckster must allow the manitou to inhabit his body for a short time in order to accomplish a required task. Unfortunately, manitous are as clever as they are evil, and occasionally fool a huckster into believing he's won, before wreaking ten kinds of holy Hell once they're in control. When a manitou cuts loose like this, it can cause massive damage, insanity, and even death.
Tipping Your Hand
Unfortunately, all these shenanigans in the Hunting Grounds don't necessarily go unnoticed in the real world. Aside from the effects of the hex itself (which can be pretty remarkable), a hand of playing cards mystically materializes in the huckster's hand when he casts the hex. The huckster must look at the hand in order to draw the manitou's power into the physical world.
In other words, someone who knows what they're looking for can spot a huckster from a country mile. If a huckster wants to hide his mystic mojo, he usually keeps a deck of real cards in his hand and conceals the magical cards with a fancy shuffle or a one-handed cut. This nifty bit of legerdemain is why most hucksters disguise themselves as gamblers, and it'll fool most folks. But if some bird-dogger's giving you the hairy eyeball, he can make a successful Notice roll to spot what you're up to.
Most townsfolk in the West (even the Weird West) are God-fearing folk who view magic as the work of Satan. The consequences of being caught "consorting with the evil one" usually involve a rope, a short drop, and a sudden stop! You've been warned, amigo.

89
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Playing a Huckster
Playing a hexslinger works just like the Arcane Background (Magic) Edge described in Savage Worlds, except that hucksters' Power Points recharge at a much slower rate than other arcane types--1 point every three hours! The Rapid Recharge Edge reduces this to 1 point every two hours, and the improved version to 1 point an hour.
If a Huckster wants to play it safe, he can cast hexes as usual and use his precious Power Points up in the normal way. If he's in a gambling mood, however, he can risk everything for more power. Interested?
Backlash If a huckster opts for the standard
method of casting spells, he makes his Spellcasting roll as usual. If the spellslinger rolls a 1 on his Spellcasting die (regardless of the result of his Wild Die), he suffers backlash and is Shaken.
Deal With the Devil Instead of the normal casting pro
cedure, however, hucksters can choose to "deal with the devil." The devils in this case are actually manitous-- lesser demons who give the hexslingers their power in the first place. This is basically like "double or nothing" in the spirit realm, and is far more dangerous than the huckster's usual game.
Dealing with the devil is a free and instant action. To make the deal, the huckster announces which of his spells he's casting (including any variables, like extra damage or number of bolts, for example), and how many Power Points he needs.

Note that a huckster can't recharge his Power Points like this--he doesn't get the points generated by the deal, they are used on the power. He can use it to preserve his points by dealing with the devil when he still has plenty of Power Points to spare, however. It's his neck, after all.
Once the hexslinger has declared what he's after, he draws five cards plus one per point of Grit. He then makes the best poker hand he can (using just five of the cards in his hand). Jokers are wild cards and can be used in place of any card in the deck (even duplicating cards already in the huckster's hand). Unused cards are discarded and the huckster compares his hand with the chart on page 83.
The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly
If the huckster's hand matches or beats the number of Power Points needed to cast the hex, he's won his bargain with the manitou. He still needs to make a Spellcasting roll to determine success, but the Power Points are paid by the manitou. With a Flush or better, success is automatic, but a Spellcasting roll may still be needed to hit or in the case of an opposed roll (the huckster gains a +4 bonus for the Flush).

90
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

This may seem like access to unlimited power, but there is a downside, compadre. If he fails to generate enough power for his hex, or uses a Joker in his final hand, the manitou wins the battle of wills, and gets the opportunity to flex its muscles a little. After the hex takes effect (or fails), the Marshal rolls on the Backfire Table (see the Deadlands Marshal's Handbook) and breaks the bad news to the huckster.
Example: Willy "KC" Silverton gets caught cheating at a game of cards and decides it's time to skin out the back way. He decides to cast Obscure, requiring 2 Power Points. Being a mite short on Power Points, he opts to deal with the devil and draws six cards (the standard five plus one for his single point of Grit).
Taking on a manitou in an ethereal card game, Willy tries to wrest the power he needs from the ornery spirit. He's dealt two Queens. Checking the chart, he sees that a pair of Jacks or better nets him 3 Power Points. The hex is successful!
Willy throws his cigar to the floor as a mystical pair of shimmering Queens appears in his hand. His cigar erupts into a choking cloud of smoke and Willy makes good his escape.
New Edges
A canny spellslinger always keeps a few extra tricks up his sleeve (along with a couple of "spare" Aces). Here are a few new Edges that fit the bill.
Dealer's Choice
Requirements: Novice, Arcane Back ground (Magic), Spellcasting d6+
Your hero's never happier than when he has a deck of cards in his hands.

No Man's Land
Poker, faro, even patience, this huckster has card games in his blood.
Any time you are dealt a card for any reason, after you have looked at it you can choose to spend a Fate Chip to discard and draw another card. High Roller
Requirements: Seasoned, Arcane Backg round (Magic), Spellcasting d6+, Guts d8+
Go high or go home is your motto. You don't bother with lesser manitous. When dealing with the devil, your hombre draws an extra card. He may still only use five cards to form the hand, but now he has more choices.
Improved High Roller Requirements: Veteran, High Roller. This Edge functions like High Roller,
only the spellslinger draws two extra cards instead of one. Old Hand Requirements: Heroic, Arcane Back ground (Magic), Spellcasting d10+ With knowledge comes power, and you know when to say when.

91
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
When dealing with the devil, red Jokers are wild cards but don't cause Backfire. Black Jokers still bring the pain as usual. (Make sure you can tell the difference before drawing cards.)
Whateley Blood
Requirements: Novice, Arcane Back ground (Magic)
Somewhere in your family tree is a crooked branch called the "Whateleys." This twisted family of inbred witches and warlocks are well-known by arcane types as being both extremely powerful, and extremely crazy. It's a dangerous combination.
Many of the Whateleys are deformed, though your hero doesn't have to be (take the appropriate Hindrance if he is). All have some tell-tale mark--pale skin, jet black hair, long fingernails, sallow complexion, and so on, and all have green eyes.
Whatever mark you choose, there's something about their tainted blood that just puts folks off, and gives your descendant ­2 Charisma.
It's entirely unfair, and we know it, but a female with Whateley blood can choose if her tell is unsettling (­2 Charisma) or exotic (+2 Charisma). We'll repeat it one more time. We know it ain't fair, so don't write to us whining about the "free Edge" sister Whateley got that her little brother didn't. (She'll have her hands full fending off suitors foolish enough to think about joining the family anyway.)
Now for the meat of what this Edge is all about. Hucksters with Whateley spirit running through their veins have learned "blood magic." They can voluntarily suffer a Fatigue level for 2 Power Points. They can suffer a wound for 1d6+1 Power Points. This is done exactly as you'd think it'd be--by cutting, carving, or otherwise maiming themselves. This is a free action--they're

quick, those Whateleys--and so can be done in the same action as the spell they so desperately need to cast, with no multi-action penalty.
Since this is a free and instant action, the Whateley can actually render himself incapacitated and still get his spell off, if he should choose to do so. Good luck waking with your gear still in your pack, however.
Shamans
Indians see the world a little dif ferently than white folks. They've known about the spirits for hundreds-- maybe thousands--of years. The most spiritual members of the tribe are called "medicine men," but since some are female, we call them "shamans."
Mad scientists deal directly with the manitous, though most do so unwittingly. Hucksters are foolish enough, in the shamans' opinion, to actually contact them on purpose.
Shamans consider themselves far wiser in the ways of the spirits. They never deal with manitous except by accident. They rely instead on asking favors of other denizens of the Hunting Grounds, the nature spirits. Other faiths, too, call upon these spirits for supernatural aid, though they know them by different names. Voodooists call both nature spirits and the manitous by the name loa, and the kindly practitioners of that faith call on the more benevolent rada loa.
In any event, the truth is that these nature spirits are pretty ambivalent toward the affairs of humanity. They sometimes help those who know how to call upon them, but usually in exchange for some sort of sacrifice or a commitment to the spirit's ways.

92
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

The Medicine Way
Unlike the religions of the white man, the spirits of the Indians are a part of daily life in an Indian village. In addition to the favors they grant, they communicate their wishes through the shamans of a tribe, and the tribe pays respect to the spirits for their continued assistance.
The life of a shaman is dedicated to the ideals of his tribe. Most are spiritual leaders and healers for their people, though some are war leaders. Some shamans are feared, but all are respected. All must set an example for their people and live a life that pleases the spirits that grant their powers. Shaman characters who do not uphold these beliefs find the spirits rarely listen to their pleas. And a shaman ignored by the spirits gets no respect from his people, and is not a shaman for long.
Shamans must perform regular sacrifices and rituals of some sort to entreat the aid of the spirits. This can be anything from a period of fasting or a pledge, to a ceremonial dance, or even ritual scarring and maiming. Generally, the more time required for a ceremony or ritual, or the more permanent the effect, the more it impresses the spirits.
The Old Ways
The most significant of these cerem onies are oaths to follow certain res trict ions set down by the spirits in exchange for their aid. The most powerful of these is the Old Ways Oath.

No Man's Land
To nature spirits, "natural" clothing, weapons, and other belongings made by and for particular humans have a history, and carry a bit of the maker's soul. This is why they dislike mass-produced items with no past, things so commonly used by the white man and symbolic of their ways. Many shamans are also repulsed by machines that pollute and ravage the earth, such as steam-powered trains and wagons, particularly since the mad scientists who constructed them required the aid of manitous to do so (knowingly or not).
Many shamans believe the spirits' disapproval of such things has weakened their relationship with the People. Some are attempting to remedy this by urging their tribes to return to the Old Ways, and forgo manufactured goods and technology in favor of hand-crafted items. While shamans are not required to take the Old Ways Oath Hindrance at character creation, those who do tend to have a more powerful connection with the spirits.

93
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
The Return of the Spirits
Until about fifteen years ago, the spirits only rarely answered the shamans' calls. The various Indian tribes suffered badly at the hands of the invading white man. They were defeated again and again by the white man's weapons, and laid low by horrific diseases brought to the Americas by the newcomers.
Fifteen years ago, all of that changed. Suddenly, the nature spirits had returned to the Hunting Grounds, and once more answered the pleas of the Indians. With their aid, the tribes were able to fight the white man on roughly equal footing. Combined with the fact that the invaders began to war amongst themselves, great alliances of Indian tribes were able to carve out territories in which the white man could not trespass.
Though the return of the nature spirits was welcome, their evil counterparts, the manitous, also began appearing in much greater numbers. The nature spirits told of an ancient bargain between "Old

Ones"--powerful Indian shamans--and the nature spirits to battle the threat of the manitous.
Hundreds of years ago, the manitous' evil inflicted great harm upon the world. Their power had been building for centuries, and it seemed little could be done. Desperate, the Old Ones turned to the nature spirits for aid. The nature spirits agreed to lock the manitous away from this world, deep in the Hunting Grounds, but the price would be high. Not only would the nature spirits need to lock themselves away as well, but the Old Ones would be required to sacrifice their very lives to seal the bargain.
Unfortunately, the Old Ones had little choice. If the manitous were allowed to continue unchecked, the world would soon be consumed in darkness and terror. They agreed, and made the ultimate sacrifice for their people.
Now, however, the nature spirits claim the bargain has been undone. The manitous have returned to plague humanity with their evil.

94
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Playing a Shaman
To become a Shaman, your character must take the Arcane Background (Shamanism) Edge, which works much like Arcane Background (Miracles) from the Savage Worlds rulebook. Shamanism uses the arcane skill Tribal Medicine (which is linked to Spirit), so be sure to put a few points into that.
First, decide whether to take the Old Ways Oath Hindrance to reflect the shaman's devotion to the ways of the ancestors. For shamans, the Old Ways Oath carries extra significance, as it helps to maintain a strong connection with the spirits.

Appeasing the Spirits
Shamanic "sins" work differently from other miraculous Arcane Backgrounds. The spirits require rituals, performed daily, to appease them so they grant favors. A shamanic ritual takes four hours with a Tribal Medicine of d4. For each die type above d4, the time required is reduced by 30 minutes. Therefore, a shaman with Tribal Medicine d8 must perform rituals for three hours each day.

Ritual Requirements

Severity Tribal Medicine Penalty

Minor

Has not performed a ritual within the prior day. Tribal Medicine ­1.

Major

Has not performed a ritual within the prior week. Tribal Medicine ­2; Power Points recharge at rate of 1/two hours.

Mortal

Has not performed a ritual within the prior month. Tribal Medicine ­4; Power Points recharge at rate of 1/four hours.

No Man's Land
Instead of the usual effects of a "sin," shamans who do not regularly perform rituals suffer the penalty listed to their Tribal Medicine roll and may regain Power Points slower, as noted above.
The spirits are more forgiving to those shamans who follow the Old Ways; a character with the Minor version of the Hindrance can ignore 1 point of penalties while the Major version ignores 2 points. Power Point recharging is unaffected by the Hindrance, as the spirits only forgive so much. To gain the benefit, the character has to actually follow the Old Ways--paying lip service to the spirits is not enough.
Shamans still begin with two powers, but they get 15 Power Points instead of the usual 10 and are able to recharge them faster than other arcane types. As long as the shaman is in the wilds, sleeps under the stars, is warmed by an open fire, or otherwise away from "civilization," he regains Power Points at twice his usual rate (subject to the limitations imposed by his "sins," of course).
Tribal Medicine
To use a power, the shaman must also perform some sort of ritual on the spot. At the very least this involves chanting and a Tribal Medicine roll. If the shaman cannot speak, he cannot use any powers.
Bad Medicine If a Shaman ever rolls a 1 on his Tribal
Medicine die (regardless of the result of his Wild Die), the power he was trying to summon fails and he gains a Fatigue level that can only be regained by several hours' meditation, communing with the spirits in a sweat lodge, or suchlike.

95
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
New Edges
Fetish Creator Requirements: Novice, Arcane Back
ground (Shamanism), Smarts d8+, Spirit d8+, Tribal Medicine d8+
This is a shamanic version of the Gadgeteer Edge.
Once per game session, the shaman can create a magic talisman and imbue it with arcane energy. The device uses any power available to the shaman (though this is still subject to Rank restrictions). It has half the creator's Power points and once these are used up they do not recharge. The ritual to imbue the object takes 1d20 minutes. Activating the device requires a Spirit roll.
Spirits' Favor Requirements: Seasoned, Arcane
Backg round (Sham anism), Tribal Medicine d8+
Normally a shaman who follows the Old Ways is proscribed from using tech nology under any circumstances. The shaman with this Edge may petition the spirits to allow him to use one normal technological device (no Mad Science gizmos or Infernal Devices) without offending them, in return for a surrender of personal power. Petitioning the spirits involves a ritual offering, which takes 1d10+10 minutes. This Edge may only be applied to one device at a time.
For as long as the shaman makes use of the device, he has 5 less Power Points than usual. When he stops using the device these points return at the usual rate. The shaman may abandon one item and switch to another, which requires another 1d10+10 minutes. During this time the favor does not apply to either device.

Mad Scientists
Doctor Darius Hellstromme might be the most famous scientist in the Weird West, but he's far from the only one. Even taking aside his main competitors--Jacob Smith and Clifton Robards--numerous pioneers on the bleeding edge of the new science create and manufacture new inventions every day.
However, only a few great men (those named above) have the wherewithal to manufacture such devices on the scale required to distribute them to the masses at a reasonable price. For most, the achievement of invention itself is its own reward.
Ghost Rock
Of course, without the discovery of ghost rock, no such achievements would be possible. Ghost rock is an amazing substance with many practical applications.
How it works depends on who you ask. The more superstitious believe ghost rock was placed here by the Devil himself to cause strife. It burns, they say, with Hell's own heat, and is composed of souls of the damned, which are heard screaming in infernal agony as it's consumed.
More rational minds say that ghost rock was simply mistaken for impure coal in days past and ignored. Only the desperation of the Mazers during the Great Quake caused it to be discovered. The white flakes claimed by "simpletons" to be damned souls are simply impurities, which coincidentally act as a catalyst with the bauxite surrounding it. The reaction between these two substances are what allows ghost rock to burn so hot.

96
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

No Man's Land

The ghostly wailing is similarly explained by simple science. Ghost rock is somewhat porous and shot through with numerous chambers of trapped air. When burned, the air heats and expands until it fractures the chamber and escapes through one of the many small fissures in the stone. This produces the highpitched wail the more fanciful-minded attribute to the escape of a damned soul (which is, of course, preposterous).
Practical Applications
Whatever your scientist believes, there's no doubt the inventions of new science would not be possible without it. It burns over a hundred times longer than coal, and can even be temporarily submerged in water without being extinguished. As we know, water extinguishes flame under ordinary cir cums tances. Thanks to the subsurface

air pockets within ghost rock, it provides its own oxygen to burn, which is usually released over a period of time. In turn, this accelerates the evaporation process, making steam engines far more efficient, both in terms of time and fuel.
Further, if ghost rock is used in place of coke during the process of steel manufacturing, it produces a metal both lighter and stronger than steel, and with a higher melting point. "Ghost steel" has made many engineering advances possible, including flying machines-- thanks to its reduced weight--and boilers capable of withstanding higher temperatures than would otherwise be possible.
Thanks to ghost rock, new science has conquered many barriers once thought insurmountable. Man has flown with the birds, swum with the fish, and-- somewhat disturbingly--marched to

97
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
war with incredible weapons capable of wreaking havoc on a heretofore untold scale. Men and women of the new science must always remember that progress should be tempered with wisdom.
Playing a Mad Scientist
New Scientists use the Arcane Back ground (Weird Science) Edge, which works as described in Savage Worlds, with a few exceptions.
The good news is that mad scientists in the Weird West start play with 20 Power Points instead of the usual 10. Power hungry scientists can still take the Power Points Edges for extra juice! You still start with only one power, though.
The bad news is that whenever some one using a scientist's gizmo rolls a 1 on their trait die (regardless of the result of their Wild Die), it explodes, erupts, or otherwise breaks in the most spectacular and injurious manner possible. (Remem ber, this ghost rock is volatile stuff--the work of demons, if you believe what you hear.) This causes 2d6 damage in a Medium Burst Template centered on the user.

The gizmo is ruined until repaired, which requires 2d6 hours and a Repair roll by someone with Arcane Background (Weird Science).
There's one more price to pay for being a mad scientist--your hero will actually go mad if he survives long enough. Every time the inventor takes the New Power Edge, he gains a random dementia. All the crazy details about this are found in the Marshal's Handbook, amigo. We wish you good luck, and a comfortable straitjacket.
New Edges
Alchemy
Requirements: Novice, Arcane Back ground (Weird Science), Knowledge (Chemistry) d8+
This character can make potions from his powers as well as devices. The downside to potions is they must be prepared ahead of time.
An alchemist character has half his normal Power Points per known power to divide among as many potions as he wishes. Extra points may be put into a potion to maintain the duration up to a predetermined limit. The alchemist can brew potions for each power he knows. Power Points are "tied up" in a potion until it is used.
Brewing a potion requires a chemistry set and 30 minutes per power. At the end of the brewing process, the alchemist must make a Weird Science roll. Failure means the potion is ruined. Success indicates it will work when used, and raises work as usual. Attack powers require a Throwing roll to hit (range of 3/6/12), and opposed powers require a normal success to resist (or ­2 with a raise). Otherwise, no roll is needed to use a potion.

98
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Eureka! Requirements: Legendary, Arcane
Backg round (Weird Science), Weird Science d12+
After tinkering and working, you may create a true Infernal Device out of one of your powers. When this Edge is taken, pick one power you currently have. The gizmo no longer uses Power Points, and thereafter functions solely on ghost rock.
One pound of ghost rock allows a maintainable power to be used for two hours of total use (regardless of its normal duration) and allows an Instant power to be used 20 times. For purposes of such powers, it's best to track each pound of ghost rock as 20 "charges." When the device runs out of fuel it's time to buy some more California coffee, hombre.
Your prototype is more stable than most other Infernal Devices; it only suffers a Malfunction on a critical failure. On top of that, your blueprints and patent earn you prestige and money from a corporation capable of reproducing your device on a mass market scale (most likely Smith & Robards or Hellstromme Industries, but a Rail Baron or national government might also express interest). Thereafter, you have +2 Charisma when dealing with other mad scientists and receive 1d6 x $50 in royalties every month (which you'll probably need to pay the ghost rock bill).
Secrets of Shaolin
Chinese immigrant labor has helped build the West as we know it today, and much as it sometimes causes friction with the white settlers, they brought their customs with them. The Chinese inhabitants of the Great Maze brought

No Man's Land
many secrets from their homeland, too, the most famous of which are those of their ancient fighting arts. For centuries, practitioners of kung fu have made extraordinary claims about their fighting traditions. According to legend, the most accomplished martial artists can perform superhuman feats.
As with many other legends in the Weird West, this one's true.
The Cup Overflows
Once upon a time (in China), the secrets of kung fu took decades to master. Though wizened teachers (called sifu) could manage all sorts of amazing stunts, most students couldn't muster as much mystic mojo with their entire being as those fellows had in their little fingers.
In the last fifteen years or so, all that's changed. Sure, the masters are having a much easier time levitating while they contemplate their navels, but the upcoming spitfires are advancing faster than they have in hundreds of years. Most sifu--generally a conservative bunch--aren't too keen on what they see as a shortcut, but few immigrants and inhabitants of the Maze are the sort to be balked by custom. In other words, while there are a few learned masters wandering the Weird West, most students of these ancient arts are a bit younger--and definitely more headstrong!
Fighting Styles
While most folks out West think there's only one way to fight someone--dirty-- the Chinese have actually developed a menagerie of subtly different styles. Unless you take an Edge that specifies your fighting style, though, you're just doing kung fu.

99
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
My Kung Fu Is Superior!
Regardless of his specific style, a martial artist must train for years under the tutelage of a sifu. This sifu might have been the head of a renowned martial arts school, or just a wandering wise man most mistake for a saddletramp. Either way, he taught you the secrets of fighting, both mundane and mystical.
He also taught you spiritual philosophy, used by many martial artists to achieve harmony with nature, which lets you harness your inner potential. This is also handy when you want to spout poeticaltype proverbs before going out to bust heads.
Thanks to this training, your character has achieved the spiritual discipline required to focus and control chi energy.
Playing a Martial Artist
Would-be martial artists must take the Martial Arts Edge to reflect the physical

aspect of their training. The Arcane Background (Chi Mastery)--the second half of the butt-kicking equation--covers the more spiritual side of things. Martial artists with both of these Edges are called "enlightened."
Chi Mastery works much as Arcane Background (Super Powers) is described in Savage Worlds. Each power available to these characters has a skill of the same name, which is used to activate that power and that power alone. In Deadlands, all such skills are linked to Spirit. This reflects the supreme force of will required to channel supernatural energy from the Hunting Grounds through one's own body, so be sure to put a few points into your hero's Spirit, or his arcane skills are going to get a mite pricey! What's more, you start with two powers in your arsenal, so you need to spend points on a skill for each one.
Other than that, Chi Mastery works exactly as Arcane Background (Super Powers) is described in the Savage Worlds rulebook.
New Edges
The following Edge represents the myriad Eastern fighting styles and lets your hero specify his own brand of mayhem.
Superior Kung Fu
Requirements: Novice, Arcane Back ground (Chi Mastery), Martial Arts, Spirit d6+, Fighting d8+
Through years of concentrated study under his wizened teacher, your character has mastered at least one of the mysterious martial arts of the Orient. His master (called a sifu) also fed him enough spiritual philosophy to choke a horse, all so he can spout Eastern wisdom before proceeding to crack heads.

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

100

No Man's Land

When you take this Edge, pick one of the martial art styles below and take the listed bonus.
This Edge can be taken more than once, but you must pick a different style each time. A character can only benefit from one style during his action, but can change styles as a free action at the start of each turn.
Drunken Style: You weave around like you're out of your tree on firew ater, making your moves hard to follow or predict.
Your hombre has +1 Parry but has his Pace reduced by 2 when using this style due to his staggering gait.
Eagle Claw: This is a fast, vicious style where you hold your hands like claws and tear away at some poor sodbuster's pressure points.
Your Fighting attacks now inflict Str+d4 damage with AP 2.
Mantis: A mantis student holds his hands like hooks, and moves from mes

merizing calm to sudden strikes in a terrifying instant. Discard and redraw cards of 5 or lower dealt to your character in combat. If he has the Quick Edge, discard and redraw cards of 8 or lower.
Monkey: In this style, you hunker down, screw up your face, and then move with sneakiness and speed. This surprises opponents, who often underestimate you because you look so dang funny.
Your sneaky hombre gets +2 when making Taunt rolls or performing Agility Tricks.
Shaolin Temple: Moves are based on five animal styles. In the Crane, you jab at people with your fingers pressed tightly together like a beak and stand on one leg a lot. The Snake is sneaky and fluid. The Dragon relies on good old-fashioned punches to inflict crushing damage. The Leopard style is all knuckles. Finally, Tiger style is all about ripping away at your opponent's muscles.

101
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Regardless of which form of Shaolin you choose, your hero's unarmed Fighting attacks inflict Str+d6 damage. The specific branch is just a matter of preference.
Shuai Chao: The practitioner grabs or throws his opponent, all the while sneaking in all sorts of jabs and rabbit punches. Watching this style in action is usually pretty confusing for your average cowpoke.
If your cowpoke Grapples an opponent and elects to inflict damage, he causes Str+d4 damage from a combination of the hold and sneaky punches.
Tai Chi: You focus your chi to such an exceptional degree that your attacks can knock your opponent halfway to Philadelphia, despite appearing as gentle as the breeze.
Opponents are knocked back 1d4" per success and raise on your character's Fighting roll. If they strike a solid object, such as a wall, they are automatically Shaken.
Tan Tui: This style relies predomi nantly on kicks, and we don't mean can-can style. Up in Shan Fan, this one's very popular with spectators at various martial arts tournaments.
Your hombre's kicks cause Str+d6 damage. He can use his powerful legs to rise from Prone at no movement cost.
Wing Chun: This style emphasizes flurries of powerful blows, usually both offensive and defensive at the same time.
As long as your hero is attacking unarmed, he may make one additional Fighting attack at no penalty.
Powers
Below are all the spells, miracles, and devices available to characters in the Weird West. We've repeated all the

powers from the main rulebook for both the sake of convenience and to tell you exactly how they work--and look--in the Weird West.
Note that hexes and miracles have very distinct trappings in Deadlands and are listed here. Some are known by particular names as well. A huckster calls the barrier spell ring of fire, for instance
Mad science is a little different because it can come in so many forms. Use the usual procedure for determining its Trappings (let the player make it up based on his concept of the gizmo that produces the effect); some ideas are presented here to help you.
Aim Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Touch Duration: 3 (1/round)
Aim increases a character's accuracy with a Shooting or Throwing attack. Called shot penalties are reduced by 1 for a success, and by 2 for a raise.
Trappings: Blessed: No visible effect. Huckster: Small sparks of crackling lightning around the gun, card, or whatever is thrown.
Mad Scientist: A high-tech scope, or heat-seeking bullet.
Martial Artist: Adopting a fighting stance.
Shaman: No visible effect. Called guiding wind.
Armor Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Touch Duration: 3 (1/round)

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

102

No Man's Land

Armor creates a magical shield around a character that protects him from damage. Success adds +2 to Toughness, and a raise +4. Non-magical AP damage does not negate this bonus, but magical armor-piercing damage does. Trappings: Blessed: Attacks simply miss. Huckster: Attacks simply miss. Mad Scientist: A bullet-proof vest, skin-hardener spray. Martial Artist: The character dodges the round in "bullet time." Shaman: A shimmering war vest.
Barrier Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 1/section Range: Smarts Duration: 3 (1 per section/round)

Barrier creates a solid, immobile wall to protect the user against attack or entrap an opponent.
Regardless of what the barrier is made of (ice, thorns, stone, energy, etc.), it has a Toughness of 10. Every Power Point spent creates a 1" wide section of wall. The barrier ranges in width from a few "real world" inches thick for stone or other hard materials up to a foot for things like bones or ice. The exact placement of each section is defined by the caster, but each section must be connected to at least one other section after the first. When the spell expires or a section is broken, it crumbles to dust.
Each section of the barrier may be destroyed by an attack that exceeds its Toughness of 10. Hitting the wall is automatic with a Fighting attack (ranged attacks must roll to hit as usual), but

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

103

Deadlands Player's Guide
raises on the attack roll do not grant bonus damage.
Opponents may climb the barrier at ­2 to their Climbing roll if it is made of something solid. Fiery versions of the barrier cause 2d4 damage to anyone who wishes to leap through instead.
Trappings:
Blessed: A near-invisible wall of force.
Huckster: A blaze that causes 2d4 damage to anyone who tries to cross it. Called ring of fire.
Mad Scientist: An "instant trap," a freeze gun, a flaming gel (2d4 damage to cross).
Martial Artist: Not available.
Shaman: Not available.
Beast Friend Rank: Novice
Power Points: Special
Range: Smarts x 100 yards
Duration: 10 minutes
This spell allows arcane types to speak with and guide the actions of nature's beasts. It works only on creatures with animal intelligence, not humanoids. Nor does it work on conjured, magical, or otherwise "unnatural" animals.
The target must be within the caster's range--it is not conjured by the power.
The cost to control a creature depends on its Size. The base cost is 3, plus twice its Size for creatures with a Size greater than 0.
Swarms may also be controlled. Small swarms cost 3, Medium swarms 5, and Large swarms 8. Thus a single rat costs 3 to control, as does a small swarm of the creatures.

Trappings: Blessed: No visible effect. Huckster: The huckster produces an appropriate treat from his sleeve. Called call o' the wild. Mad Scientist: A pheromonal control spray, bestial manipulator ray. Martial Artist: No visible effect. Shaman: No visible effect.
Blast Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 2­6 Range: 24/48/96 Duration: Instant
Blast is an area effect power that can put down many opponents at once. The character first picks where he wants to center the blast, then makes the appro priate skill roll. Normal ranged attack modifiers apply.
The area of effect is a Medium Burst Template. If the roll is failed, the blast deviates as a launched projectile. Targets within the blast suffer 2d6 damage. Unlike other attacks, raises on the attack roll do not add to damage for area effect attacks.

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

104

Additional Effects: For double the Power Points, the blast does 3d6 damage or the size is increased to a Large Burst Template. For triple the points, it does both.
Trappings:
Blessed: Not available.
Huckster: A hurled card that explodes in a ball of green energy. Called ace in the hole.
Mad Scientist: Ball lightning gun.
Martial Artist: The martial arts version has no range, but essentially turns the character into an explosive flurry of fists and feet. Center the template on the martial artist. Everything within suffers the damage. Called fury fans the flame.
Shaman: Not available.
Bolt
Rank: Novice
Power Points: 1­6
Range: 12/24/48
Duration: Instant
Bolt hurls a beam of energy, a projectile, or other missile at a target. The arcane skill roll is used as the attack roll, and the base damage is 2d6.
Additional Bolts: The character may cast up to three bolts by spending a like amount of Power Points. This must be decided before the power is cast. The bolts may be spread among targets as the character chooses. Firing the additional bolts does not incur any attack penalties.
Additional Damage: The character may also increase the damage to 3d6 by doubling the Power Point cost per bolt. This may be combined

No Man's Land
with the additional bolts, so firing three bolts of 3d6 damage costs 6 Power Points.
Trappings: Blessed: Not available. Huckster: The huckster hurls a playing card from his sleeve with devastating force. Called soul blast. Mad Scientist: A ray gun, lightning cannon. Martial Artist: Pebbles or other small projectiles are hurled at tremendous speed. Called stones fly from the hand. Shaman: Not available.
Boost/Lower Trait Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: 3 (1/round)
This power allows a character to increase any of a target's Traits by one die type for a standard success, and two with a raise. The affected Trait can exceed d12. Each step over d12 adds +1 to his Trait total. For example, a raise on someone who already has a d12 in the affected Trait grants him d12+2 for the duration of the power.

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

105

Deadlands Player's Guide
The power can also be used to lower an opponent's Trait. This is an opposed roll against the victim's Spirit. Success lowers any Trait of the caster's choice one step, a raise lowers it two steps. A Trait cannot be lowered below d4. Multiple castings stack, but the caster must keep track of when each casting expires. Trappings: Blessed: A prayer. Called bless or curse. Huckster: No visible effect. Mad Scientist: A potion, mood manipulator, invigorating device. Martial Artist: No visible effect. Shaman: The spirit of an appropriate animal (an owl for Smarts, a bear for Strength, and so on) is barely perceptible behind the shaman, but only to others with Arcane Backgrounds. Called spirit of the bear, wolf, etc. Burrow Rank: Novice Power Points: 3 Range: Smarts x 2 Duration: 3 (2/round)

Burrow allows a caster standing on raw earth to meld into it. He can remain underground if he wants in a sort of "limbo," or burrow to anywhere within his range. A hero with a Smarts of d8 could move up to 16" (32 yards) on the first round, maintain the spell and stay submerged for the second, and then move another 16" before the spell ends.
A burrowing hero can attempt to surp rise a foe (even one who saw him burrow) by making an opposed Stealth versus Notice roll. If the caster wins, he gains +2 to attack and damage that round, or +4 with a raise. Targets on Hold may attempt to interrupt the attack as usual.
Trappings:
Blessed: Not available.
Huckster: Not available.
Mad Scientist: A personal burrowing device, small vehicular contraption.
Martial Artist: The character spins into and out of the earth with great speed, like a human top. Called earth's rotation.
Shaman: Shamans can use this power, but move very slowly and never get the drop on victims. They may only move 2" per round rather than twice their Smarts.
Burst
Rank: Novice
Power Points: 2
Range: Cone Template
Duration: Instant
Burst produces a fan of energy that bathes its targets in fire or other dam aging energy.

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

10 6

When cast, place the thin end of the Cone Template at the character's front. Targets within the template may make Agility rolls versus the caster's arcane skill roll to avoid the effect. Those who fail suffer 2d10 damage. This counts as a Heavy Weapon.
With a fire trapping, victims have a 1 in 6 chance of catching fire as well (see the Fire rules in Savage Worlds).
Trappings:
Blessed: Not available.
Huckster: A shower of playing cards that slices foes to ribbons. Called 54 card pick-up.
Mad Scientist: A flamethrower, shrapnel gun, energy beam.
Martial Artist: The martial artist kicks at the ground with great fury, showering those in the template with pebbles and other debris. This only works outdoors or in other areas where such debris exists. Damage from this attack is only 2d4 rather than 2d10, and is never fatal (characters can be wounded normally--they just won't die). Called shower of the earth.
Shaman: Not available.
Curse
Rank: Seasoned
Power Points: 5
Range: Touch
Duration: Permanent
Some practitioners of the arcane arts heal their allies; others inflict sickness upo n their enemies.
To use this particularly nasty spell, the caster pits his arcane skill against the victim's Spirit. If the caster is successful, the victim becomes sick and might even die. The character suffers a level of Fatigue immediately and each day thereafter. Once he becomes Incapacitated, he makes a Vigor roll each

No Man's Land
day to avoid death; a raise on any of these rolls ends the curse.
The curse can be lifted by the original caster or use of dispel. Once ended by any means, Fatigue is recovered at one level per 24 hours.
Trappings: Blessed: Voodooists only. Curse requires a voodoo doll and a personal possession of the victim rather than a Range of sight.
Huckster: Not available. Mad Scientist: Not available. Martial Artist: Called dim mak (Touch of Death).
Shaman: The shaman asks the healing spirits to abandon the target.
Deflection Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Touch Duration: 3 (1/round)
Some uses of deflection actually redi rect incoming attacks, while others blur the target's form or produce other illusionary effects. The end result is always the same--to misdirect incoming melee and missile attacks from the user.
With a standard success, attackers must subtract 2 from any Fighting, Shooting, or other attack rolls directed at the user. A raise increases the penalty to ­4. This also acts as Armor against area effect weapons.
Trappings: Blessed: No visible effect. Huckster: No visible effect. Called missed me!
Mad Scientist: A deflection field belt. Martial Artist: The attack misses. The martial artist may make an immediate Agility roll at ­6 for bullets or ­4 for thrown weapons. If successful, he hurls the projectile back at the original target

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

107

Deadlands Player's Guide
for Str+d6 damage. Called seize the pearl of death. Shaman: No visible effect.
Detect/Conceal Arcana Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Sight Duration: 3 (1/round) or 1 hour (1/ hour)
Detect/conceal arcana allows a character to sense supernatural persons, objects, or effects within sight. This includes invisible foes, enchantments on people or items, mad science devices, the activity of hucksters, and so on.
The power can also be reversed to conceal a single supernatural item, being, or effect. This has the same cost, but the duration is much longer--1 hour with a maintenance cost of 1 per hour.
When used in this way, those who wish to see through the ruse with detect arcana use their arcane skill roll as an

opposed roll against the concealer's skill (rolled anew each time detect arcana is cast).
The detecting character may only attempt to see through concealed powers once per casting of detect arcana. Trappings: Blessed: Not available. Huckster: No visible effect. Mad Scientist: Detect arcana only. A "spirit detector," ghost rock goggles. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: No visible effect.
Dispel Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 3 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant
Dispel allows a hero to negate enemy spells, miracles, mad science, or super powers. It has no effect on a creature's innate powers or abilities. Nor does dispel work on magic items or permanent

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

108

enchantments unless the specific item or enchantment says otherwise.
Dispel can be used on a power already in effect, and can also be used to counter an enemy power as it's being used. The latter requires the countering caster to be on Hold and interrupt his foe's action.
In either case, dispelling the opponent's power is an opposed roll of arcane skills. The dispelling character suffers a ­2 modifier if the target power is of another type (magic vs. miracles, etc.)
Trappings:
Blessed: An oath in the name of his God.
Huckster: A wave of the hand.
Mad Scientist: A negative energy discharger.
Martial Artist: Not available.
Shaman: A short dance to the trickster, Coyote.
Elemental Manipulation Rank: Novice
Power Points: 1
Range: Smarts x 2
Duration: Instant
A character with the elemental manipu lation power must select one particular element to control (though he may choose other elements as a new power). This allows him to perform basic "tricks" within his chosen element.
The specific tasks that may be attempted depend on the element selected and are listed below.
Air: The caster can create lesser air currents to blow out a candle, fan a flame, lift a skirt, or cool his body in oppressive heat (+1 to a single Fatigue roll caused by heat).
Earth: A wave of the hand can open a one-foot-square hole in soft earth (or half that in stone), or cause a spray of sand

No Man's Land
that might blind an opponent (+1 to a Trick maneuver roll).
Fire: The caster can snap his fingers to create a small flame (about the size of a hot match). With existing fire, he can urge it to spread (+1 to see if a fire spreads), cause it to flare (perhaps as part of a Trick maneuver), or slowly light an object over the course of a few rounds (as if holding a match to it).
Water: The caster can conjure up to a pint of water somewhere within his sight (not "inside" objects or people). A wave of his hand also purifies one gallon of water, whether it be poisoned or simply salt-water. Those who have been poisoned within the last minute also get a second chance to resist any remaining effects.
Trappings:
Blessed: Air and water only. Voodooists may manipulate fire as well.
Huckster: Air and fire only. A wave of the hand.
Mad Scientist: Lightning generator.
Martial Artist: Air only. A wave of the hand.
Shaman: Air and earth only. A short oath to the animal spirits. The spirit then performs the act--a gopher digs a hole, a hawk fans a flame, etc.
Entangle Rank: Novice
Power Points: 2­4
Range: Smarts
Duration: Special
This power allows the character to restrain a target with snaking vines, lengths of hair, spider webs, or some other vine-like trapping.
The arcane skill roll is opposed by the target's Agility. Success indicates partial restraint so that the target suffers a ­2 penalty to Pace and skills linked to

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

109

Deadlands Player's Guide
110
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Agility and Strength. A raise restrains the target fully. He cannot move or use skills linked to Agility or Strength.
Each following round, an entangled target may make a Strength or Agility roll to break free. Other characters may also attempt to free the ensnared person by making a Strength roll at ­2.
For 2 Power Points, entangle targets a single opponent. For 4 points it affects everyone in Medium Burst Template.
Trappings:
Blessed: Not available.
Huckster: The target is bound in mystical bands of undeniably supernatural energy. Called mystic bonds.
Mad Scientist: An entangling device, "memory" metal bolos.
Martial Artist: The character hurls a piece of entangling rope or chain at the foe.
Shaman: Animated roots or branches.
Environmental Protection Rank: Novice
Power Points: 2
Range: Touch
Duration: 1 hour (1/hour)
This power allows posses to travel beneath the waves, in freezing cold, or other hazardous environments. Environmental protection allows the target to breathe, speak, and move at his normal Pace while underwater, in a vacuum, in the lava of a volcano or the baking desert heat, the frozen northern wastes, and so on. Pressure, atmosphere, air, etc., are all provided.
Complete protection is offered only for background hazards. A fire attack, for example, causes normal damage even with environmental protection.
A success is needed to enact the power. With a raise, the cost for maintaining the

No Man's Land
power is reduced to 1 Power Point per 2 hours (for that particular target).
Trappings: Blessed: No visible effect. Huckster: No visible effect. Mad Scientist: A metal suit, a force field projector.
Martial Artist: Available, but Duration is vastly reduced. The character must make a Smarts roll to "concentrate" and maintain the ability each round.
Shaman: No visible effect.
Exorcism Rank: Veteran Power Points: 15 Range: 1 yard Duration: Permanent
This long ritual banishes evil spirits from a mortal host. The process takes eight grueling hours, during which time the target must remain within the power's range (1 yard). At the end of the eight hours, the caster makes an opposed roll of his arcane skill versus the demon's Spirit. If the caster wins, the demon is banished instantly and forever. If the creature wins, it remains in the host and may never be exorcised by this caster. A Harrowed who is exorcised is laid to rest for eternity.
Trappings: Blessed: Constant reading from the Bible (or other holy work), holy water, prayer beads, etc.
Huckster: Not available. Mad Scientist: Not available. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: A long, exhausting dance. The shaman must make a Vigor roll each hour of the dance or be Fatigued. Becoming Incapacitated halts the ritual, which must be started again from scratch.

111
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Fear Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts x 2 Duration: Instant
This power causes the target over whelming dread and horror. The area of effect is the Large Burst Template. Every creature beneath the template must make a Guts check. Apply a ­2 penalty to the Guts roll if the caster got a raise.
Wild Cards who fail roll on the Fear Table, while Extras are Panicked instead (see the Savage Worlds rules).
Trappings: Blessed: Voodooists only. Victims hear the chilling cries of the loa. Huckster: The huckster pulls a Joker card from thin air. The image of the Joker comes to life and screams, laughs, or otherwise says boo! to the target. Mad Scientist: An emotion manipulator, fright spray, terror generator. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: The shaman's target gains a brief, involuntary glimpse into the Hunting Grounds (in his mind).
Fly Rank: Veteran Power Points: 3/6 Range: Touch Duration: 3 (1/round)
This power allows a character to fly at his basic Pace, with a Climb rate of half that number. He may choose to double his Pace by spending twice the number of Power Points.
Trappings: Blessed: Not available. Huckster: Available only to non-player character "witches."

Mad Scientist: A flying disk, ornithopter, jet pack.
Martial Artist: Martial artists don't truly fly, but can "leap" almost as if they were flying, bouncing off tree limbs, dancing on poles, etc.
Shaman: Not available.
Gambler Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 5 Range: Self Duration: Permanent
Some casters can transmute arcane power into pure luck with this minor effect.
With a successful roll, the caster converts her 5 Power Points into a Fate Chip drawn at random from the Fate Pot. Failure, however, angers the fickle spirits of fate and costs her a Fate Chip instead. No Fate Chips may be spent on the arcane skill roll, and it may not be cast if the gambler has no Fate Chips to wager.
Trappings: Blessed: No visible effect. Called holy roller.
Huckster: No visible effect. Called all in. Mad Scientist: Not available. Martial Artist: A moment's concentration.
Shaman: Not available.
Greater Healing Rank: Veteran Power Points: 10/20 Range: Touch Duration: Instant
Greater healing restores wounds more than one hour old. This use of the power requires 10 Power Points, but otherwise works exactly like the healing power.
Greater healing can also heal Permanent Crippling Injuries. This requires an

112
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

arcane skill roll at ­4, 1d6 hours of time, and 20 Power Points. Only one casting is permitted per injury-- if it fails, the injury really is permanent.
Trappings:
Blessed: Laying on of hands and prayer.
Huckster: Not available.
Mad Scientist: A healing potion, invigorating ray. Repairing a Crippling Injury requires a prosthetic of some sort.
Martial Artist: Not available.
Shaman: The shaman dances about the injured character, asking the Great Spirit for divine aid. He then prepares foul-smelling poultices and paints glyphs all over the victim's body. This requires 10 minutes of time (though the victim is stabilized immediately if that's an issue).
Healing
Rank: Novice
Power Points: 3
Range: Touch
Duration: Instant
Healing repairs recent bodily damage. It must be used within the "golden hour," though, for it has no effect on wounds more than one hour old.
For Wild Cards, each use of the healing spell removes a wound with a success, and two wounds with a raise. The roll suffers a penalty equal to the victim's

No Man's Land
wounds (in addition to any the caster might be suffering himself).
For Extras, the Marshal must first determine if the ally is dead (see Aftermath in the Savage Worlds rules). If so, no healing may be attempted. If not, a successful arcane skill roll returns the ally to the game Shaken.
Healing can also be used to cure poison and disease if used within 10 minutes of the victim being afflicted. Trappings: Blessed: Laying on of hands. Huckster: Not available. Mad Scientist: A healing potion. Martial Artist: Acupuncture, massage.

113
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Shaman: The shaman utters oaths and promises to the spirits.
Hunch Rank: Novice Power Points: 3 Range: Touch Duration: Permanent
The forces of darkness really hate this hex. It gives hucksters insight into the past of a person, place, or thing.
Assuming the hex is successful, the caster gets a vision, feeling, insight, or hunch about some event that happened in the target object or person's past. Raises on the arcane skill roll grant more information at the Marshal's discretion. Trappings: Blessed: Not available. Huckster: The huckster must deal himself a hand of cards from an actual deck and study them. Mad Scientist: Not available. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: Not available.
Inspiration Rank: Novice Power Points: 5 Range: Special Duration: Instant
The blessed use this powerful miracle to undo the cancerous effects of fear on the land itself.
When used in conjunction with the telling of a heroic tale, it adds +2 (+4 with a raise) to the Persuasion roll used to reduce the local Fear Level. The blessed does not have to tell the tale himself-- he can cast the miracle on a more accomplished tale-teller instead. Trappings: Blessed: A rousing, good ol' fashioned fire-and-brimstone-style sermon. Huckster: Not available.

Mad Scientist: Not available. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: Not available.
Invisibility Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 5 Range: Self Duration: 3 (1/round)
Being invisible is a powerful aid in combat, and useful for spying on saloon gals as well!
With a success, the character is trans parent, but a vague outline is visible. A character may detect the invisible presence if he has a reason to look and makes a Notice roll at ­4. Once detected, he may attack the foe (also at ­4). With a raise, the character is completely invisible and the penalty is ­6.
In either case, the power affects the character and his personal items. Anything picked up after the power was cast remains visible.
Trappings: Blessed: Not available. Huckster: The huckster merely concentrates and fades away.
Mad Scientist: An invisibility belt or potion.
Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: Not available.
Light Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Touch Duration: 10 minutes (1/minute)
The ability to create light is a pretty simple one as magical spells and powers go, but a posse trapped in the dark with loathsome walkin' dead is happy to have an ally with this ability. Light must be cast on an inanimate object, such as a coin, a sword, a shield, or even someone's

114
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

No Man's Land

clothing. Clever casters often cast light on a foe's clothes or weapon to make him easier to see--ignore any penalties for illumination when attacking such an affected target.
The light is as bright as a torch, and provides clear illumination in an area equal to a Large Burst Template. Trappings: Blessed: A soft glow. Huckster: A flash of light that "sticks." Mad Scientist: Phosphorous paint. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: Not available.
Mind Rider Rank: Novice Power Points: 3 Range: 1 mile x Spellcasting Duration: 1/minute
A character can use this ability to hear through a subject's ears, see through his eyes, etc. This is an opposed roll of the

caster's arcane skill versus the target's Spirit.
If the victim wins, he knows he was targeted by magic (if he knows such things exist) and the spell is unsuccessful (though the Power Points are still spent). The caster can sense anything the victim can if he proves successful.
The character can cast this spell on an unseen target if he has an object the subject touched within the last week.
Trappings: Blessed: Voodooists only. A deep trance. Huckster: No visible effect. Mad Scientist: A tiny transmitter lodged in the recipient's head, a flying eyeball.
Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: Swaying or dancing.
Obscure Rank: Novice Power Points: 2

115
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Range: Smarts Duration: 3 (1/round)
This power does exactly what its name implies--creates an area of obscurement equal to a Large Burst Template. Attacks into, out of, or through the area of effect suffer the standard penalty for pitch darkness (­6).
Trappings: Blessed: Not available. Huckster: The huckster snaps his fingers.
Mad Scientist: A light-negation device, smoke bomb, smoke potion.
Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: Not available.
Protection Rank: Novice Power Points: 0 Range: Self Duration: Concentration
A blessed or shaman who does nothing but concentrate on his faith is very difficult for creatures of darkness to oppose. Casters whose religions use particular symbols (crucifix, star of David, etc.) gain a +2 bonus to their arcane skill roll when they present the symbol.
While using this power, the individual may take no other actions and may not move.
A supernatural creature that wants to directly attack a character using protection must first win an opposed test of its Spirit versus the target's arcane skill.
Trappings: Blessed: The symbol of his faith. Huckster: Not available. Mad Scientist: Not available. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: Quiet and repetitive chanting.

Puppet Rank: Veteran
Power Points: 3
Range: Smarts
Duration: 3 (1/round)
Sometimes it pays to persuade others to do your fighting for you. Some do this by blatant mind control, others do it by manufacturing visual and auditory illusions.
Puppet is an opposed roll of the character's arcane skill versus the target's Spirit. The user must score a success and beat the target's roll to gain complete control. The victim will attack friends and even commit suicide, though such acts allow the victim another opposed Spirit roll to break the spell.
Villainous types may have other versions of puppet that allow them to control subjects for much longer periods of time--perhaps even permanently. Such versions usually require a personal belonging.
Trappings:
Blessed: Voodooists only. Voodoo doll.
Huckster: The huckster plants a card in the pocket (or other area) of his puppet.
Mad Scientist: A mind-control ray or chemical.
Martial Artist: Not available.
Shaman: Not available.
Quickness Rank: Seasoned
Power Points: 4
Range: Touch
Duration: 3 (2/round)
Nothing makes a gunslinger faster on the draw than this amazing power. With success, the target has two actions per round instead of the usual one (at no multi-action penalty). With a raise, the recipient gains the benefits above,

116
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

and can also discard and redraw any initiative cards lower than 8 each round. Trappings: Blessed: No visible effect. Called godspeed. Huckster: No visible effect. Mad Scientist: Speed potion, time accelerator (or decelerator!). Martial Artist: No visible effect. Shaman: The slight outline of a spiritual wolf. Called speed of the wolf.
Sanctify Rank: Novice Power Points: 10 Range: Special Duration: Permanent until desecrated
Sanctify allows a blessed or shaman to consecrate areas of earth, causing great pain to supernaturally evil creatures that attempt to tread upon it.

No Man's Land
Sanctification takes an entire week of prayer. The blessed must remain within the bounds of the area for the entire duration. The area is determined by the Marshal, but is typically the grounds of a church, a battle, or some other place of importance. If no clear boundaries exist, the area is equal to five times the caster's arcane skill in yards.
When the ritual is complete, the arcane skill roll may be attempted. If successful, the area is sanctified. If the roll is failed, the priest must start from scratch.
Any supernaturally evil creature that attempts to enter the sacred ground must make a Spirit roll at the start of each round or suffer a wound.
Trappings:
Blessed: Sprinkling holy water and praying.
Huckster: Not available.

117
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide Mad Scientist: Not available. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: The shaman makes an elaborate sand painting (or other ritual) at the center of the area.
Shape Change Rank: Special Power Points: Special Range: Self Duration: 1 minute (1/minute)
Many cultures have legends of shamans or wizards who can take on the shape of animals. This power does just that. This version of the power only allows a user to transform into mundane animals, but more bizarre transmutations may be found.
A character may learn this spell while of Novice rank, but cannot transform into the more powerful creatures until he attains the appropriate rank. The cost in Power Points depends on the type of creature the character wishes to shape change into. Use the Shape Change

Table below as a guideline for unlisted creatures.
Weapons and other personal effects are assumed into the animal's form and reappear when the power ends, but other objects are dropped.
While transformed, the character retains his own Smarts, Spirit, and linked skills (though he may not be able to use them since he cannot speak). He gains the animal's Agility, Strength, and linked skills, and cannot use most devices. He has no capacity for speech and cannot use powers, though he may continue to maintain powers previously activated.
The Marshal has final say on what an animal can and cannot do. A shaman in dog-form might be able to pull the trigger on a shotgun, for instance, but would use a default skill roll of d4­2 as the animal has no Shooting score of its own. The shaman's Persuasion functions normally, but without speech, might suffer a ­4 or worse penalty depending on what he tries to accomplish.

Cost 3
4 5 6 7

Rank Novice
Seasoned Veteran Heroic Legendary

Animal Types Hawk, rabbit,
cat Dog, wolf, deer
Lion, tiger Bear, shark Great white
shark

Trappings: Blessed: Not available. Huckster: Not available. Mad Scientist: Not available. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: The shaman "morphs" into the chosen creature.

118
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Smite Rank: Novice
Power Points: 2
Range: Touch
Duration: 3 (1/round)
This power is cast on a weapon of some sort. If it's a ranged weapon, it affects one entire magazine, 10 bolts, shells, or arrows, or one full "load" of ammunition (the Marshal may have to determine the exact quantity for unusual weapons). While the spell is in effect, the weapon's damage is increased by +2, or +4 with a raise.
Trappings:
Blessed: A simple blessing.
Huckster: Not available.
Mad Scientist: A hyper-sharpened blade, sharpening gel, a pneumatic jackhammer.
Martial Artist: No visible effect.
Shaman: No visible effect.

No Man's Land
Speak Language Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Touch Duration: 10 minutes (1/10 minutes)
This power allows a character to speak, read, and write a language other than his own. The language must be of an advanced form--not animalistic. A raise on the arcane skill roll allows the user to project a particular dialect as well. Trappings: Blessed: No visible effect. Called tongues. Huckster: No visible effect. Mad Scientist: A deciphering machine. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: No visible effect.
Speed Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Touch

119
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

Duration: 3 (1/round)
Warriors who need to close with their foes quickly often use this power, as do those who sometimes need to outrun the swifter breed of critter.
Speed allows the target of the power to move faster than usual. On a success, the recipient's basic Pace is doubled. With a raise, running becomes a free action, so he may ignore the usual ­2 running penalty as well.
Trappings:
Blessed: Not available.
Huckster: No visible effect.
Mad Scientist: Speed potion, pneumatic shoes, muscle accelerant.
Martial Artist: The character becomes a blur.
Shaman: Called speed of the hawk.

Stun Rank: Novice
Power Points: 2
Range: 12/24/48
Duration: Special
Sometimes foes must be taken alive, or a hero might not want to kill unneces sarily. Stun shocks those within a Medium Burst Template with concussive force, sound, magical energy, or the like.
If the arcane character scores a success, targets within the area of effect must make Vigor rolls or be Shaken. With a raise, victims make Vigor rolls at ­2.
Trappings:
Blessed: A thunderclap!
Huckster: A massive boom.
Mad Scientist: A concussive grenade, vacuum collapser.

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

120

Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: Not available.
Succor Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Touch Duration: Permanent
Succor removes one Fatigue level, or two with a raise. It can also remove a character's Shaken status. Succor may be used to restore consciousness to those who have been Incapacitated due to wounds as well, though the wounds remain. It does not stop bleeding or otherwise stop mortal wounds from worsening, however.
The arcane individual may never use succor on themselves.
Trappings: Blessed: Giving comfort in some way. Huckster: Not available. Mad Scientist: An electric invigorator, restorative tonic.
Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: The shaman paints glyphs on the target.
Telekinesis Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 5 Range: Smarts Duration: 3 (1/round)
Telekinesis is the ability to move a single object or creature (including one's self) with arcane will. The weight a caster can lift is equal to 10 lbs. times his Spirit die type, or 50 lbs. times his Spirit with a raise on the casting roll.
Lifting Creatures: If the target of the power is a living creature, it may try to resist the power with an opposed Spirit roll. If the Spirit roll is greater

No Man's Land
than the caster's skill total, the creature is unaffected. If the creature loses, however, it is lifted as usual and does not get another attempt to break free.
Occasionally a victim might manage to grab onto something solid to prevent itself from being lifted. When this happens, the victim may make an opposed Strength roll versus the caster's arcane skill. If the victim is successful, he manages to grab onto something and is not moved that round.
Telekinetic Weapons: A caster can use telekinesis to wield a weapon. When this occurs, the weapon's Fighting is equal to his arcane skill, and its damage is based on the caster's Spirit instead of his Strength. A sword that does Str+d4 damage, for example, does Spirit+d4 when wielded by telekinesis. The weapon otherwise functions normally, including granting bonus damage when it strikes with a raise.
Dropping Things: Particularly ruth less characters often use telekinesis to drop their foes or bash them into walls and the like. A creature affected by this power can be moved up to the caster's Smarts in inches per turn, in any direction. Dropped creatures suffer falling damage as usual.
Victims who are bashed into walls or other solid objects suffer the caster's Spirit+d6 as damage.
Trappings:
Blessed: Not available.
Huckster: The huckster waves his hands as if controlling the force. Called phantom fingers.
Mad Scientist: A magnetic projector, a force generator.
Martial Artist: Not available.
Shaman: Not available.

121
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Teleport
Rank: Seasoned
Power Points: 3+
Range: Special
Duration: Instant
Teleport allows a character to disappear and instantly reappear up to 10" distant for each 3 Power Points spent, or 15" with a raise. This counts as his movement for the round. Adjacent opponents do not get a free attack against the teleporting character. If the hero wishes to teleport somewhere he can't see, he must make a Smarts roll (­2). If it is an unknown area he has never seen, the roll is at a ­4 penalty.
Failure on either roll means the teleporter has hit an object of some sort. He returns to where he came from and is Shaken. A roll of 1 on the casting die (regardless of the Wild Die) indicates a more serious disaster--in addition to being Shaken he also suffers 2d6 damage.
The teleporter can never enter a solid space even if he tries. The power instantly returns him to his starting location as above.
Carrying Others: The hero can carry other beings with him, but this automatically causes one level of Fatigue per additional "rider." More than two may be carried at once, but this causes instant Incapacitation. One Fatigue level is regained for each full hour of rest.
Trappings:
Blessed: Not available.
Huckster: The huckster must step into a sizable shadow and emerge in another. He cannot teleport into lit spaces. He may teleport freely in the dark. Called shadow walk.
Mad Scientist: An atom scrambler/ reassembler.
Martial Artist: Not available.

Shaman: The shaman steps into the Hunting Grounds and steps out somewhere else. Called spirit walker.
Trinkets Rank: Novice Power Points: Special Range: Sight Duration: 1 (Concentration)
Trinkets allows a huckster to reach into a pocket, pouch, or bag and pull forth some minor mundane object.
The cost in Power Points required depends on the item the huckster hopes to find.
Unfortunately, the item is temporary and only lasts a number of rounds equal to the huckster's Smarts.

Cost 1 PP 2 PP
3 PP
4 PP

Item Match, penny
Scarf, random playing card, nickel
Derringer, knife, two bits ($.25)
Pistol, $5 coin, specific playing card

Trappings: Blessed: Not available. Huckster: The huckster reaches into a container of some sort. Mad Scientist: Not available. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: Not available.
Vision Quest Rank: Veteran Power Points: Special Range: Self Duration: Special
A vision quest is a plea to the spirits for a glimpse into the future. The shaman

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

122

may ask the spirits a single question. The question determines the cost and the time it takes to perform the vision quest.
If properly appeased (the shaman makes his Tribal Medicine roll), the spirits return with the most likely answer. The future contains many paths however, so the vision may not always be correct.

Duration 1 hour 1 day 1d6 days

Cost 3 PP 5 PP 10 PP

Information Requested
A minor matter such as the success of a crop, marriage, birth, etc.
A matter of import, such as the outcome of a great battle.
A major matter, such as the identity of a murderer or the weakness of an abomination.

No Man's Land
Trappings: Blessed: Voodooists only. A deep trance in which the houngan or mambo contacts the loas for advice. Huckster: Not available. Mad Scientist: Not available. Martial Artist: Not available. Shaman: The shaman dances, meditates, tattoos, creates sand paintings, or other rituals, depending on the time spent questing.
Wilderness Walk Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Self Duration: 1/hour
Wilderness walk allows a spellcaster to move through the outdoors quietly and without leaving a trace. The earth's spirits quiet the sound of the shaman's footsteps, adding +1 to his Stealth rolls. They also disguise his path, making his footprints impossible to track. The miracle does not apply to his companions, however.

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

123

Deadlands Player's Guide
Wilderness walk cannot be used indoors.
Trappings: Blessed: Not available. Huckster: No visible effect. Mad Scientist: A track-covering device, shoe brooms, wind machine.
Martial Artist: No visible effect. Shaman: No visible effect. May not be used in civilized areas or settlements.
Windstorm Rank: Novice Power Points: 3 Range: Sight Duration: 1 (Concentration)
This power conjures up a twister strong enough to whip the coat off a dead man.
The windstorm must be conjured out of doors, and is the size of a Medium Burst Template. Everyone within the whirlwind is automatically blinded and must make a Vigor roll or be Shaken each round. Any ranged attacks that cross the twister suffer a ­2 penalty.
The caster can move the windstorm as he wishes each round, at a Pace equal to his Spirit die type. If the caster takes any action other than concentrating on the spell, he must make a Spirit roll or the effect is lost.
Trappings: Blessed: The blessed proclaims the power of his lord, waving his arms and preaching a sermon (or whatever is appropriate) as the divine winds begin to swell.
Huckster: The huckster hurls a deck of cards (which is lost) into the air. They swirl about and remain in the twister. Called Texas twister.
Mad Scientist: A hurricane machine. Martial Artist: Not available.

Shaman: The shaman calls upon the spirits of the wind, exhorting them to his will.
Zombie Rank: Veteran
Power Points: 3/corpse
Range: Smarts
Duration: Special
This power is considered evil by most. A mad scientist or houngan who uses it had best be sure there are no Agents or Rangers about.
When cast, zombie raises the number of dead specified by the character when he spent his Power Points. The undead are immediately obedient, though perhaps a bit mischievous and literal-minded in their duties.
Corpses aren't summoned by this ability, so there must actually be a supply of bodies available for the power to have any effect. Sadly, these aren't hard to come by in the Weird West. The bodies don't have to be fresh--zombie can raise servants that have been waiting patiently for centuries. Graveyards, morgues, and battlefields can all serve this purpose.
With a success, the dead remain animated for one hour. With a raise, they remain animated for 1d6 hours. With two raises, they remain animated for an entire day.
Certain powerful necromancers may have improved versions of this power that are cheaper to cast and create permanent undead.
Trappings:
Blessed: Voodooists only.
Huckster: Not available.
Mad Scientist: Spinal activators, electric animator, necrotic revitalizing fluid.
Martial Artist: Not available.
Shaman: Not available.

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

124

No Man's Land

Zombie These walkin' dead are typical
groaning fiends looking for fresh meat.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d4, Spirit d4, Strength d6, Vigor d6
Skills: Fighting d6, Intimidation d6, Notice d4, Shooting d6
Pace: 4; Parry: 5; Toughness: 7
Special Abilities:
· Claws: Str.
· Fearless: Zombies are immune to Fear and Intimidation.
· Undead: +2 Toughness. +2 to recover from being Shaken. Called shots do no extra damage (except for the head).
· Weakness (Head): Shots to a zombie's head (­4 Called Shot) do +2 damage, for a total of +6.

Beyond the Pale
This last section is dedicated to the dear departed. Thing is, in Deadlands, the dead don't always stay dearly departed!
Some strong-willed individuals actua lly return from the grave. These cowpokes are possessed by a manitou, an evil spirit who uses the host's mind and body to affect the physical world. The poor stiffs are called Harrowed, which means, "dragged from the earth."
Fortunately, a manitou in an undead host is slain if the brain is destroyed (one of the few ways they actually can be killed), so they only risk their otherwise eternal souls on individuals with exceptional abilities. Weak or infirm mortals are only resurrected when it suits some greater diabolical purpose.

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

125

Deadlands Player's Guide

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

126

Voices in Your Head
Manitous need to bond to a mortal soul in order to survive in the physical world. This means they keep their host's soul around, hoping to metaphysically beat it into submission. As such, Harrowed must occasionally battle for control of their own bodies.
For the most part, the manitou simply sits back and lets the Harrowed go about his daily unlife (otherwise the Marshal would be running your character for you). From time to time, however, the demon tries to hop into the driver's seat to do some dastardly deed. If the manitou is strong enough, it can take control of your hero for a while. If it gets too strong, it can take over permanently.
Dominion
We represent this struggle for control as Dominion. When you first return from the grave, you probably remember suffering through your worst nightmare. Well, guess what, hombre: the manitou puts you through your own little corner of Hell every night, hoping to weaken your resolve. Fortunately, you don't sleep much anymore.
When you first rise from the grave, your Dominion starts at 0, meaning that you and the manitou are on roughly even footing. When the Marshal tells you to make a Dominion roll, you must roll your Spirit--opposed by the manitou-- in order to keep the manitou out of your head. This Spirit roll is modified by your current Dominion.
If you succeed, you retain control and gain 1 point of Dominion, or 2 on a raise. If you fail, the manitou takes over (and gets up to some evil shenanigans right quick) and you lose 1 Dominion point, or 2 if the manitou scored a raise. If you tie, the manitou doesn't take control,

No Man's Land
but you spend 1d6 rounds fighting off its influence (you're Shaken for the duration, hombre). No matter how many times you win or lose this struggle, your Dominion can never go below ­4 or above +4.
Here's a little hint, partner--you can take a whole lot a suffering before actually getting killed (as described below), but try to avoid taking a dirt nap while the manitou's ahead of the Dominion game.
Unlife of a Harrowed
So what's it like being undead? A mixed blessing, truth be told. A walking corpse is a tough hombre to take in a fight, but he has trouble making friends.
Death Wounds
As you'll see in a bit, Harrowed regenerate. It's awfully tough to do any serious harm to someone who's already crawled out of the grave once, much less hurt him bad enough to leave a scar. That said, all Harrowed have at least one wound that never quite heals--their death wound. Whatever puts a fellow down the first time leaves an indelible mark.
Most Harrowed do their best to cover these ugly scars up. The living don't cotton to seeing folks' guts falling out of their bellies. Some wounds are easier to hide than others. A Harrowed who was strangled might just start wearing highcollared shirts; a fellow who had some ornery critter use his guts for garters is going to have a bit harder time of it.
Death wounds aren't as horrible as they were at death--they "heal" enough to be passed off--but they're always there, and always ugly.

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

127

Deadlands Player's Guide
Decay
Undead have pale, sallow skin. They don't truly rot since the manitous sustain their bodies with supernatural energy, but they don't smell like roses, either. Anyone who gets up close and personal with a Harrowed picks up the smell of decay with a Notice roll.
Drinking a quart or so of alcohol "pickles" a Harrowed for a day or two. He'll smell like a drunk, but at least he won't smell like the dead. Animals, though, can always tell. Any Riding rolls, or any other rolls involving the cooperation of animals, suffer a ­2 penalty when attempted by Harrowed.
If you're worrying about what this stench is going to do to your luck with the ladies, don't. Harrowed blood doesn't flow, which means it doesn't flow down south, either. Female Harrowed

can "fake it," but the experience won't be pleasant for either party.
Food and Drink
You'd think being dead would put a serious damper on a cowpoke's appetite, but this isn't actually the case--at least not if a Harrowed ever wants to heal. Harrowed need meat--fresh or carrion-- to patch themselves up. Each healing roll attempted by a Harrowed consumes about a pound of flesh. The Harrowed must eat the meat, but he doesn't necessarily have to cook it first (we told you these guys had trouble making friends, right?).
Harrowed don't need water, and while we're on the subject of libations, can't get drunk either. For that matter, other than the pickling described above, Harrowed aren't affected by booze or drugs, and can't be poisoned or catch a disease (at least, not a normal disease).

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

128

Grit
Being a walking corpse hardens the mind to horrific experiences. It doesn't get much worse than clawing your way out of your own grave. Harrowed characters gain +1 Grit upon rising from the dead.
Sleep
Whoever first said, "he sleeps like the dead," obviously didn't know any dead folks. The manitou inside needs 1d6 hours of downtime each night to do its thing and keep the magic flowing.
Unlike normal folk, Harrowed can't really push it to stay awake--when it's time to go nighty-night, the manitou just shuts the Harrowed down. The Harrowed can try to resist, but he must make a Spirit roll every hour or keel over on the spot (and likely get buried again when folks discover his heart isn't beating). This roll gets tougher as the night drags on: each additional roll suffers a cumulative ­2 penalty.
For the record, sleeping Harrowed aren't completely oblivious. The manitou keeps one eye open for trouble, so Harrowed are just as likely as any other folks to wake up if trouble comes along.
Undeath
Harrowed are a pretty sturdy bunch. They don't suffer fatigue from mundane sources, and non-lethal damage has about as much effect on them as a mosquito does on a steer. Harrowed suffer wounds normally, but they can't be killed except by destroying the brain. The only way Incapacitation (see Savage Worlds) can snuff a Harrowed is if a Called Shot to the noggin caused it or if a roll on the Injury Table indicates a head shot. If the brain is mush, the manitou can't control the corpse's functions and

No Man's Land
is ejected. For some strange reason, this destroys the sucker as well. The Harrowed is now actually dead, as in, "not getting back up again."
A Harrowed can still take a beating fierce enough to take him out of action even without a hit to the noggin. If he's Incapacitated, he rolls Vigor as normal. However, if he "dies" due to anything other than a head shot, he's only put down for 1d6 days.
In either of the above cases, Harrowed don't really bleed out. If the hero fails (or even critically fails) his Vigor roll, just assume he's suffered enough physical punishment to put him out of action as discussed above, with no Spirit roll required.
One more thing, hombre. The Har rowed don't suffer damage like most folks. When an ordinary cowpoke gets shot full of holes, he cries for his mama and squirms around in pain. Harrowed don't feel pain, and they don't really bleed either. However, they still suffer wound penalties as normal. In the case of the Harrowed, these penalties reflect damage to the Harrowed's muscles and bones, making movement and action more difficult--it's also a little distracting having your stinking, rotted guts spilling all over your boots.
Counting Coup
You've probably figured out by now that the Weird West has a whole lot of nasties lurking around. (Hell, if you're Harrowed, you're one of 'em!) Like the Harrowed, most of these creatures have a spark of supernatural energy in them, and the most powerful have a whole lot. Harrowed characters can steal this energy. When one of these critters dies, a nearby Harrowed (within game inches equal to the creature's Spirit die) can "count coup" on it and collect its essence.

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

129

Deadlands Player's Guide
Harrowed who count coup gain some pretty strange abilities, but some powers come with a curse as well. Taking all that evil inside is no small thing. In any case, Harrowed can only count coup on the more powerful creatures of the Weird West. Lesser critters just don't have enough mojo to collect.
If more than one Harrowed is within range to count coup, it's a contested Spirit roll to see which of them gets the honors. If a Harrowed can gain a coup power from a creature, it is listed in the creature's description. Your Marshal has the details on what powers come from each creature. The only way for you to find out, compadre, is to saddle up and take the battle to the enemy.
Harrowed Edges
A hero gets one Harrowed Edge the moment he comes back from the grave. When leveling, the deader can choose to gain a new Harrowed Edge instead of a regular Edge.
Sometimes your hero might come back not quite knowing he's already dead. In this case the Marshal is within his rights to make you wait until you've figured out the truth before you take your first Harrowed Edge.
Cat Eyes Requirements: Novice, Harrowed The character gains +2 to his Notice
rolls to spot visual clues, and ignores penalties for Dim and Dark lighting conditions.
Improved Cat Eyes Requirements: Seasoned, Har
rowed, Cat Eyes The Harrowed can see in the dark,
ignoring all penalties for lighting. He

can also sense if a character within a few feet is a supernatural creature of some sort.
Chill o' the Grave Requirements: Heroic, Harrowed They say the grave is damp and cold,
and this Harrowed has mastered the ability to radiate that chill from the Hunting Grounds through his body, lowering the ambient temperature around him noticeably.
The deader makes a Spirit roll to use this power. On a success, the temperature drops 10° F. Anyone experiencing this supernatural chill must make a Guts roll. On a raise, it drops 20° F and the Harrowed is surrounded by a dank mist. Witnesses must make a Guts roll at ­ 2.
Claws Requirements: Novice, Harrowed The character gains supernaturally
sharp Claws that cause Str+d4 damage in combat. The claws may be extended or retracted at will.
Improved Claws Requirements: Veteran, Harrowed,
Claws
The deader's Claws have become longer and sharper and now inflict Str+d6 damage.
Ghost Requirements: Seasoned, Harrowed The Harrowed decides if he is corporeal
or incorporeal at the beginning of each of his actions. He must remain in that state until his next action--he cannot attack and then go incorporeal.
While ghosted, the deader is intangible, though he is still visible and magical attacks affect him normally. The Harrowed may remain ghosted as long as he continues to concentrate. If

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

130

he suffers damage while in this state, he must make a Spirit roll or become tangible once more.
Hell Fire
Requirements: Heroic, Harrowed
There's a reason why flames figure prominently in the Hells of pretty much every religion. Many supernatural beings have a love affair with the destructive power of fire.
A Harrowed with this power suffers one die less damage than usual from fire, though he will still catch fire if exposed to flames. What's more, with a successful Spirit roll, he can cause a fire to flare or die at his whim.
On a raise, he can extinguish the fire, or he can cause it to explode, showering everything in a Medium Burst Template in flames. Roll to see if flammable material ignites, as usual (see Savage Worlds).

No Man's Land
Implacable Requirements: Veteran, Harrowed Most Harrowed take a while to get
used to the fact that they don't suffer pain anymore. They still grunt when shot, and limp when their ankle gets chewed to hamburger by some unholy varmint. It's a mental thing.
Your hombre, on the other hand, has overcome this block--or he's too dumb to care. Either way, he ignores 2 points of wound penalties, cumulative with Nerves of Steel.
Infest Requirements: Novice, Harrowed Like animals, insects have spirits in the
Hunting Grounds as well. The manitous have learned a few tricks to control these creatures.
A Harrowed with this power can control swarms of small biting, stinging

131
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
insects. The creatures aren't created by the power, however, so they must be present in the surrounding terrain.
If the Harrowed does nothing but concentrate on this power for three rounds, he can summon a swarm of insects; one swarm template for each three rounds of concentration. Use the stats from the Savage Worlds rules for each swarm.
Soul Eater Requirements: Veteran, Harrowed This nasty ability, one of the
Harrowed's cruelest weapons, allows the walking corpse to drain a victim of his life force.
Immediately after inflicting a wound with his bare hands (or claws), the character makes a Spirit roll opposed by his victim (even if the foe is going down). Should he win, the Harrowed can restore a lost Fatigue level. If he has no Fatigue, he can restore a wound instead. A raise on the Spirit roll allows him to heal two Fatigue levels (or two wounds).
Spook Requirements: Novice, Harrowed The Harrowed draws upon the power
of the manitou within him to lend a little

extra substance to his intimidating glare or grating voice. When the Harrowed makes an Intimidation roll and scores a raise, Extras are Panicked and Wild Cards must roll on the Fright Table (see the Savage Worlds rules).
Stitchin' Requirements: Novice, Harrowed A dead man with Stitchin' regenerates
damage much faster than normal--he may make natural Healing rolls every day, provided he consumes a pound of meat for each attempt, as usual.
Improved Stitchin' Requirements: Veteran, Harrowed,
Stitchin'
As above, but the deader may roll every hour.
Supernatural Attribute Requirements: Novice, Harrowed Supernatural Attribute immediately
improves any one attribute two die types (a d12 becomes a d12+2, and so on). This Edge may be taken up to five times, once for each attribute. Note that it does not apply to skills.
Wither Requirements: Novice, Harrowed The taint of death hangs heavy around
this deader and this ability allows him to pass some of that unwholesome energy to others.
This power allows a Harrowed to cause something he touches to age prematurely. Whatever he is attempting to affect, it must be no bigger than the size of the Harrowed's hand. On a successful Spirit roll, he ages the thing by a month. On a raise, it ages by a year. Though this power cannot harm something as large as a human, it does cause food to putrefy, wood to rot, and metal to rust.

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

132

PoAker pHapndseannd dPowiecrePosints

Hand
Ace High Pair
Jacks or Better Two Pairs
Three of a Kind
Straight
Flush
Full House
Four of a Kind
Five of a Kind
Straight Flush

Cards
One Ace Two cards of the same value A pair of Jacks or better
Two sets of two cards
Three cards of the same value Five sequential cards
Five cards of the same suit
Three cards of one value, two of another Four cards of the same value
Five cards of the same value (requires use of a Joker) Five sequential cards of the same suit

Effect
1 Power Point
2 Power Points (excess Power Points are lost)
3 Power Points (excess Power Points are lost)
4 Power Points (excess Power Points are lost)
5 Power Points (excess Power Points are lost)
6 Power Points (excess Power Points are lost)
Spell goes off with a raise (if possible, otherwise no extra effect)
As flush, and hex Duration is doubled (except Instant hexes)
As flush, and hex Duration is multiplied by 10 (except Instant hexes)
As flush, but the huckster can turn the power on or off at will for 24 hours at no cost
As above, and the huckster draws a Fate Chip from the Fate Pot

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

133

Deadlands Player's Guide
Available Powers by Arcane Background
Miracles (Blessed)
Aim, Armor, Barrier, Beast Friend, Boost/Lower Trait, Deflection, Dispel, Elemental Manipulation, Environmental Protection, Exorcism, Gambler, Greater Healing, Healing, Inspiration, Light, Protection, Quickness, Sanctify, Smite, Speak Language, Stun, Succor, Windstorm
Curse, Fear, Mind Rider, Puppet, Vision Quest, Zombie (Voodooists only)
Magic (Hucksters)
Aim, Armor, Barrier, Beast Friend, Blast, Bolt, Boost/Lower Trait, Burst, Deflection, Detect/Conceal Arcana, Dispel, Elemental Manipulation, Entangle, Environmental Protection, Fear, Gambler, Hunch, Invisibility, Light, Mind Rider, Obscure, Puppet, Quickness, Speak Language, Speed, Stun, Telekinesis, Teleport, Trinkets, Wilderness Walk, Windstorm
Chi Mastery (Martial Artists)
Aim, Armor, Beast Friend, Blast, Bolt, Boost/Lower Trait, Burrow, Burst, Curse, Deflection, Elemental Manipulation, Entangle, Environmental Protection, Fly, Gambler, Healing, Quickness, Smite, Speed, Wilderness Walk
Weird Science (Mad Scientists)
Aim, Armor, Barrier, Beast Friend, Blast, Bolt, Boost/Lower Trait, Burrow, Burst, Deflection, Detect/Conceal Arcana, Dispel, Elemental Manipulation, Entangle, Environmental Protection, Fear, Fly, Greater Healing, Healing, Invisibility, Light, Mind Rider, Obscure, Puppet, Quickness, Smite, Speak Language, Speed, Stun, Succor, Telekinesis, Teleport, Wilderness Walk, Windstorm, Zombie
Shamanism (Shamans)
Aim, Armor, Beast Friend, Boost/Lower Trait, Burrow, Curse, Deflection, Detect/Conceal Arcana, Dispel, Elemental Manipulation, [Entangle], Environmental Protection, Exorcism, Fear, Greater Healing, Healing, Mind Rider, Protection, Quickness, Sanctify, Shape Change, Smite, Speak Language, Speed, Succor, Teleport, Vision Quest, Wilderness Walk, Windstorm

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

134

AGIL VIGOR

S SPIRI

Name

Hindrances

ITY
10

+ 12

8

6

4 +

4 S6 MA8 RT
10 12 + 4 6

12

8

10

10

8

12

T
Skills

6

4 +

4+

12
S

10 8 6
TRENG

T

H

d d d d d d d d d d

Worst Nightmare

Background
Gear &Dinero
Total Weight Weight Limit Penalty
Permanent Wounds

Weapons/Gadgets/Powers

Range

Damage

Edges

5 10 15
Seasoned 25 30 35
Veteran 45 50 55
Heroic 65 70 75
Legendary 90 100 110

Notes

Charisma
Grit
Pace Parry
Toughness
-1 -2-3
INC -2
-1

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide
Weird West Map

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

136

Index

Symbols
54 Card Pick-Up107
A
Ace in the Hole105 Agency Ranks41 Agency, The8­9, 27, 40, 79 Agent40, 75 Ailin' 34 Aim102 Alchemy 98 Appendices 133­136 Arcane Background (Chi Mastery)37 Arcane Background (Magic) 37 Arcane Background (Miracles) 37 Arcane Backgrounds 37­38, 75, 76 Arcane Background (Shamanism) 37 Arcane Background (Weird Science) 37 Armor 102 Auto-Gyro60
B
Back East 7, 8, 9 Backfire 46, 91, 92 Backlash 46, 77, 90 Bad Dreams35 Bad Medicine 95 Barrier 103 Bastard46 Beast Friend 104 Behold A Pale Horse47 Blast104 Bless106 Blessed29, 37, 75, 76­77, 82­86 Blood Money23 Bolas54 Bolt105 Boost/Lower Trait105

Born on All Hallow's Eve46 Born on Christmas46 Bounty Hunter29 Breech Birth  46­47 Bullet Proof Vest60 Burrow106 Burst106
C
Call o' the Wild104 Camera51, 60 Cap & Ball Weapons 54 Card Sharp40 Cat Eyes130 Chaps51 Character Sheet 135 Chill o' the Grave130 Chi Masters 37, 99 City of Lost Angels 18, 23 City o' Gloom 17­18 Civil War, The1, 5­12 Claws130 Colt Buntline Special54 Common Folk29 Commonwealth of California, The20­21 Communication24 Confederacy, The9 Confederate Forces 25 Conviction85 Counting Coup129 County Sheriffs  27­28 Courts 28 Coyote Confederation 11, 16, 23 Crime & Punishment 26 Crisis of Faith83 Currency 22, 34 Curse  106, 107 Custer, Gen. George 14­16

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

137

Deadlands Player's Guide
D
Damned47 Davis, Jefferson8 Dealer's Choice91 Deal With the Devil90­91 Death Wounds 127 Decay128 Deflection 107 Dementia46, 98 Deseret. See Republic of Deseret Deserter29 Detect/Conceal Arcana108 Dim Mak107 Dinero 22 Dispel108 Disputed Territories11­14, 21, 25 Dominion 127 Double-Action Weapons56, 67 Drifter 29 Drunken Style101 Duelist39 Duels 39, 68 Dynamite51
E
Eagle Claw101 Earp, Wyatt. See Wyatt Earp Earth's Rotation 106 Edges
Background37 Blessed 85­86 Combat  38­47 Harrowed 130­132 Huckster  91­92 Legendary 47 Mad Scientist  98­99 Martial Artist 100­102 New37 Professional 40 Shaman 96 Social 40 Weird 45 Edict of '7718, 23 El Cheapo Gear49 El Cheapo Horses50

Elemental Manipulation109 English 1840 Model54 Entangle109 Environmental Protection 111 Epitaph. See Tombstone Epitaph Epitaph Camera60 Escort29 Eureka!99 Evans Old Model Sporter54 Exorcism 111 Explorer29
F
Faith82­83, 83 Fanning the Hammer 39, 67­68 Fast As Lightning47 Fate Chips65 Fate's Favored45 Fear112 Fear Level  44 Fetish Creator96 Fighting Styles  99, 100­102 Flamethrower61 Flock85 Fly112 Fourth Level, The27 Fury Fans the Flame 105
G
Gambler112 Gambling73 Gatling Guns54, 61 Gatling Weapons61 Gear 34, 49­64 Gear Notes 51­54 Getting Around21 Gettysburg 6, 11 Ghost 130 Ghost Rock 7, 14, 15, 18, 20, 23, 31, 52, 55,
59, 76, 78, 81, 96­98, 98, 99 Ghost Rock Detector61 Ghost Steel7 Ghost Trail14 Gizmos55­59 Godspeed 117 Grant, President Ulysses S.8

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

138

Greased Lightning Pills 61 Greater Healing112 Great Maze 6­7, 18­21 Great Rail Wars  7, 14, 22 Grifter 30 Grimme, Reverend Ezekiah.
See Reverend Grimme Grimme's Crusade20 Grim Servant o' Death 35 Grit40, 65, 129 Guiding Wind102
H
Hanging 74 Harrowed  78, 125­132
Coup  129­130 Death Wounds127 Decay128 Dominion127 Edges 130 Food and Drink128 Grit 129 Sleep 129 Undeath129 Hatchet51 Healing 113 Heavy Sleeper35 Hell Fire131 Hellstromme, Dr. Darius  18, 75, 96 Hexslingers86 High Roller91 Hindrances34 Hip-Shooting 39 Holy Roller 112 Hoofing It 21 Hoyle's Book of Games88 Huckster 30, 37, 75, 86, 86­92 Hunch  114 Hunting Grounds 89, 92, 94
I
Immigrant30 Implacable131 Improved Cat Eyes130 Improved Claws130 Improved High Roller91

Index
Improved Hip-Shooting39 Improved Stitchin'132 Indian Brave30 Indian Shaman30 Infernal Devices55, 55­64, 99 Infest 131 Inspiration 114 Invisibility 114
J Judges28 Junkyard18
K Knack45 Knock Back102 Kung Fu 100­102
L Lantern 51 Lariat 54 Law Dog 30 LeMat Carbine54 LeMat Revolver54 Light 114 Lockpicks 51 Lost Angels18, 23 Lyin' Eyes 35
M Mad Scientist 31, 37, 75, 96­99 Mail 25 Makin' Heroes 32­47 Malfunctions 59, 98 Manitous78, 89, 90­91, 125­132 Mantis Style 101 Manufacturin'55 Map, Weird West136 Martial Artists37, 78, 99­102 Martial Arts 39 Mind Rider115 Miracles 37, 46, 83 Missed Me107 Money 22, 23 Monkey Style 101 Monsters 76 Muckraker31

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

139

Deadlands Player's Guide
Mystic Bonds111
N
NCO42­43 New Science7, 37, 55­64, 96­99 Nitro51
O
Obscure 115 Officer 42­43 Old Hand91 Old Ones94 Old Ways Oath35, 95 Old Ways, The 16, 93, 95, 96 Order of the Raven16 Outlaw31
P
Phantom Fingers 121 Pick51 Poker Hands 87, 133 Pony Express25 Powers 102­132
54 Card Pick-Up107 Ace in the Hole  105 Aim 102 Armor 102 Barrier103 Beast Friend104 Blast104 Bless106 Bolt  105 Boost/Lower Trait 105 Burrow106 Burst 106 Call o' the Wild104 Curse106, 107 Deflection 107 Detect/Conceal Arcana108 Dim Mak107 Dispel 108 Earth's Rotation 106 Elemental Manipulation109 Entangle109 Enviromental Protection111 Fear 112

Fly112 Fury Fans the Flame 105 Gambler112 Godspeed117 Greater Healing112 Guiding Wind102 Healing 113 Holy Roller 112 Hunch  114 Inspiration114 Invisibility114 Light114 Mind Rider115 Missed Me107 Mystic Bonds111 Obscure115 Phantom Fingers121 Protection 116 Puppet116 Quickness 116 Ring of Fire 104 Sanctify117 Seize the Pearl of Death108 Shadow Walk 122 Shape Change 118 Shower of the Earth107 Smite119 Soul Blast  105 Speak Language119 Speed119 Speed of the Hawk120 Speed of the Wolf117 Spirit of the Bear106 Spirit of the Wolf106 Spirit Walker 122 Stones Fly from the Hand 105 Stun120 Succor 121 Telekinesis121, 122 Texas Twister124 Trinkets 122 Wilderness Walk 123 Windstorm 124 Zombie124 Powers by Arcane Background134

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

140

Private 42­43 Promotion Table41 Prospector31 Protection  116 Puppet 116
Q
Quick Draw Holster51 Quickness 116
R
Race  32, 32­33 Rail Barons  14, 18­21, 22 Ranger Ranks 44 Rangers. See Texas Rangers Ranger's Bible, The82 Rank Hath Its Privileges43 Reckoners 75 Reckoning, The75­76 Reloading  40, 51, 67­68 Republic of Deseret17­18, 20 Reputation40 Restoration Elixir63 Reverend Grimme 18­21, 23 Riding the Rails22 Right Hand of the Devil47 Ring of Fire104 Rocket Pack63 Rope51
S
Saddle Sore21 Salt Lake City17 Sanctify  117 Scout41 Secrets of Shaolin99 Seize the Pearl of Death 108 Selling Goods50 Seventh Son47 Shadow Walk 122 Shamans 37, 46, 92­96 Shaolin 99­102 Shaolin Temple101 Shape Change118 Shower of the Earth107 Shuai Chao 102 Single-Action Weapons56, 67

Index
Sinnin' 83­85 Sinnin'85, 86 Sioux Nation, The 14­16 Sitting Bull  14­16 Slavery32­33 Slowpoke35 Smite 119 Smith & Robards  59­64 Smith & Robards Catalog 59­64 Snakeoil Salesman42 Soldier 31, 42 Soul Blast105 Soul Eater 132 Speak Language119 Speed 119 Speed Load40 Speed Load Cylinder51 Speed of the Hawk120 Speed of the Wolf117 Spellslinger86 Spirit of the Bear106 Spirit of the Wolf 106 Spirits' Favor96 Spirit Walker122 Spook132 Stagecoaches22 Steam Wagon 63 Stitchin'132 Stones Fly from the Hand105 Stun 120 Succor121 Superior Kung Fu 100­102 Supernatural Attribute132
T
Tai Chi102 Tale Teller  44 Tan Tui102 Telegraph24 Telekinesis121 Teleport 122 Tenderfoot36 Texas Rangers 10­11, 27, 44, 75, 81­82 Texas Twister 124 The Law26 Thin Skinned 36

141
John Rogers (Order #49932984)

Deadlands Player's Guide

Tombstone Epitaph 1­2, 31, 44, 60, 76 Town Marshals26 Travel and Transportation 21
Horseback 21 Rails 22 Stagecoaches  22 Tribal Medicine 95 Trinkets122 True Grit 40
U Union Forces25 United States 5­6, 8­9, 32­33 US Marshals27
V Veteran o' the Weird West 38 Vocal Unction Elixir 64 Voodoo 85­86
W Wanted36 Warlock86 Weapon Notes 54­55 Weird West Map136 Wesson Dagger-
Pistol54 Whateley Blood 92 Whip 55 Wilderness Man45 Wilderness Walk 123 Windstorm 124 Wing Chun102 Wither 132 Wizard86 Women31 Wood Ax54 Wyatt Earp 12, 54
Y Young, Brigham17
Z Zombie124, 125

John Rogers (Order #49932984)

142

