Page left blank for easier double-side printing

SAVAGE W O R L D S ADVENTUR E EDITION

Credits
WRITTEN & DESIGNED BY Shane Lacy Hensley, with Clint Black ART DIRECTION BY Aaron Acevedo & Alida Saxon LAYOUT BY Karl Keesler & Thomas Shook COVER ART BY Jimbo Salgado & Unique Soparie INTERIOR ART BY Aaron Acevedo, Bruno Baxila, Chris Bivins, Emil Cabaltierra, Donald Crank, Dennis Darmody, Sebastien Ecosse, Alberto Foche, Bien Flores, Gil Formosa, Ross Grams, Konrad Korgull, Irina Kuzmina, Chris Malidore, Jordan Peacock, Aaron Riley, Martin De Diego Sadaba, Alida Saxon, Unique Soparie, Bryan Syme, Jon Taylor, Tomek Tworek, Cheyenne Wright PINNACLE PLAYTESTERS & PROOFERS: Erica Balsley, Jodi Black, Matthew Cutter, Preston DuBose, John Goff, Norm Hensley, Mike McNeal, Sean Roberson, Thomas Shook, Steve Todd LOGISTICS & MARKETING: Jodi Black, Christine Lapp, Chris Landauer PRODUCTION: Simon Lucas, Jessica Rogers, Donald Schepis
Advocates, Contributors & Playtesters
Dave Andrews, Veronica Blessing, Ron Blessing, Jayson C, Jordan Caves-Callarman, Jack Emmert, Sean Patrick Fannon, Chris Fuchs, M. Alfonso García, Marc Gacy, David Garrett, Hamish Halket, Darrell Hardy, Dustin Hatchett, Darrell Hayhurst, John Hopler, Neal Hyde, Aaron Isaac, Derek Johnson, Steve Kellison, Christopher Landauer, Lee Langston, Adam Loyd, Min Lungelow, Brian McCabe, Randy Mosiondz, Andrea Parducci, Bruce Powell, Paul Rigby, R Kal Ringenbach, Dave Ross, Matt Rowles, Tracy Sizemore, Zeke Sparkes, Robert Spice, Bill Stilson, Joe Thomas, Brett Wallis, Scott Woodard, Michael Ysker, Micheal Zeid
Special Thanks To Our Licensees, the Aces"
Please see our website at www.peginc.com for a current list. Thank you so much for sharing your incredible creativity and passion with our community. Truly.
Special Thanks To Our International Partners
Brazil: Guilherme Moraes, Fernando Pires, Eder Marques, Daniel Martins of Retropunk -- France: Sabine Abbonato, Ghislain Bonnotte, David Burckle, Damien Coltice, Yannick "Torgan" Le Guédart of Black Book Editions-- Germany: Markus Ploetz, Michael Mingers of Ulisses Spiele (Adventure Edition) -- Italy: Luca Basile, Matteo Ceresa, Gionata Dal Farra of Jolly Troll / SpaceOrange42 --Poland: Piotr Kory, Umberto Pignatelli, Andy Slack, Tomasz Z. Majkowski of GRAmel Books -- Russia: Anastasia "Chima" Gasteva, Dimitrii Arbaks, Aleksandr Ermakov, Pavel Gurov of Studio 101-- Spain: Jorge "Tiberio" Coto, Adolfo García, M. Alfonso García of HT Publishers
Dedicated to hundreds of thousands of Game Masters and players who have explored countless landscapes, rolled endless Aces, and shared their love and enthusiasm of gaming with friends, family, and strangers around the most Savage of Worlds...
Savage Worlds, all unique characters, creatures, and locations, artwork, logos, and the Pinnacle logo are © 2023 Pinnacle Entertainment Group. Printed in China.
WWW.PEGINC.COM -- Fifth Printing

Contents

Any Time, Any Place

5

Getting Started

6

Characters9
Ancestries  12 Making Ancestries 18 Hindrances  22 Traits 29 Edges  37 Advancement  54 Character Creation Summary 55 Hindrance Summaries 56 Trait Summaries 58 Edge Summaries 59
Gear65
Armor  69 Personal Weapons  72 Modern Firearms 74 Special Weapons 77 Vehicles  81
Rules87
Combat  91 Healing 96 Situational Rules 97

"wHiesi!lmcI'oymmbteohotekoG, bbMourt, arynooudw'rtihtei.s"

The Adventure Tool kit

111

Allies111 Chases & Vehicles113 Dramatic Tasks122 Fear124 Hazards 125 Interludes130 Mass Battles131 Networking133 Quick Encounters134 Setting Rules136 Social Conflict143 Travel144 Wealth 145

Powers147
Arcane Backgrounds147 Trappings150 Activation 151 Powers 154 Power Summaries172

Bestiary175
Bestiary 180

Game Mastering

193

Running the Game198 State Summaries203 Small Blast Template 204 Large Blast Template 204 Medium Blast Template205 Cone Template 205

Index206

"I r un games for Emily, who always plays ` R ed,' and Nate, who always plays `G abe.' I Wr ote some of our comments in this book that mig ht help you play and r un your own game."

" Ther e's a pictur e of us on the last pag e if you want to see who we ar e!"
--The G M

Any Time, Any Place

Since it debuted in 2003, Savage Worlds has accommodated any setting you can imagine -- from gritty police procedurals and special ops thrillers to dungeon crawls, space opera, supers, and horror. Our various settings have explored supernatural terror and the challenges of final exams in East Texas UniversityTM. We've wandered the moors of Europe and the savannas of Africa with Solomon KaneTM. We've galloped across the haunted High Plains of Deadlands: The Weird WestTM, and the irradiated wastes of Deadlands: Hell on EarthTM. We've delved the deepest dungeons, blasted to The Last ParsecTM of known space and beyond, battled across the bloody fields of the Weird WarsTM, and slugged it out with super villains over cities both real and imagined.
Like most gamers, we're fans of a lot of books, movies, and game worlds. One week we might be inspired to run something like Game of Thrones® and another we want to share a cool idea inspired by the Avengers®.
And while we love learning new game systems and seeing what our friends and peers have created, we also like having a system we know like the back of our hands to fall back on, one that combines the crunch of miniatures-oriented gameplay with the ease of "theatre of the mind" and the creative outlet of the most modern narrativebased play.

Each new printing of Savage Worlds has added to the experience, carefully integrating new styles of play through the years with the solid foundation laid at the very beginning.
This version of Savage Worlds is what we hope is our best attempt yet at accommodating not just every era, genre, and setting, but most every play style as well.
Want to sit around on couches and carry out most of the tale through talk and a few die rolls? It's here.
Want to break out miniatures and have a massive knock-down, drag-out fight? Everything you need is here.
Need to tell an epic story that's mostly roleplaying and narrative? Nothing's stopping you--and sub-systems like Quick Encounters can help you sum up bloody conflicts along the way if pressed for time.
Perhaps the best thing a game system can do is support your ideas. It should serve as background and a common language for your players--then get out of the way as the story races to its conclusion. We've attempted to make that even better in this edition by streamlining many modifiers, simplifying how you pose creative challenges for foes and support your allies, and even opening up new options for heroic multi-actions.
Enough talk. Grab your dice. It's time to get savage!

5

Getting Started

What's a Roleplaying Game? What You Need to Play

A "roleplaying game" is one in which a group of players take on the roles of various characters and attempt to complete quests, tell a story, or overcome obstacles set before them by a "Game Master," or "GM." The GM might create all this straight from her imagination, or she might use one of the published settings and adventures created by Pinnacle, or by other creators who have licensed the rules for their own worlds.

Here's what else you need to begin your journey...
Dice
Savage Worlds uses traditional gaming dice: 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 20-sided. You also need a special "Wild Die," a d6 of a different color explained in Chapter Three. Dice are available from your favorite local gaming store, or online directly from Pinnacle.

Most of the time, the players and GM We abbreviate the different dice as d4, d6,

simply narrate their various actions in the d8, d10, d12, and d20. If you see something

voices of their characters or those of the world like 2d6 + 1 , that means to roll two six-sided

around them. Sometimes they roll dice tied dice, add the two together, then add 1 to

to their characters' abilities to determine the the total.

outcome. This book describes that process--
how to create characters, battle monsters, The Action Deck

and complete quests through collective story Savage Worlds uses a standard deck of playing

telling and interpretation of various die rolls. cards with the Jokers left in. Cards are used

If you're new to this whole thing, we for initiative in combat and to help keep recommend watching some "actual play" things moving fast and furious.

videos on the internet to get a feel for it.

Look for official Savage Worlds Action

And if you are new, we think you'll love Decks for both the core game and most of our exploring the incredible world of roleplaying Savage Settings!

games!

A Savage Setting

Will you and your friends explore post-

se"emSosmliekteimsoems ethwiseiarldl

just g ame ."

--R ed

apocalyptic ruins? Lead a rugged warband in your favorite fantasy world? Take on the role of vampire lords? Or perhaps fight evil in the many theaters of the Weird WarsTM?

6

Getting Started

Pick up the book for your favorite game setting at your local game store, or create your own. Official Savage Settings include new Edges and Hindrances, Setting Rules, powers, weapons, gear, monsters, and more!
Bennies
Tokens of some sort represent "Bennies" (American slang for "benefits"). These can be used to reroll dice, prevent damage, and much more, all described on page 89.

Most settings feature adventures (called Savage Tales) and Plot Point Campaigns.
Savage Tales
Most Savage Tales are designed to be easy to read, prepare, and run in minutes, and provide a solid night's entertainment.
Others are longer, full-length scenarios with multiple chapters designed to be run over several sessions. Full-length adventures are often bundled with our Game Master Screens.

Miniatures (Optional)
If you like to use miniatures in your games, we make the most iconic characters and creatures for many of our settings, and our friends at Reaper Minis and Bronze Age make lots of other useful models for tactical battles on the tabletop.
We also offer printable "Figure Flats" for many of our games--print what you need for quick and colorful minis of heroes and heroines, villains, monsters, and more.

Plot Point Campaigns
Most of our Savage Settings include a "Plot Point Campaign," a grand backstory to the campaign world and a set of Savage Tales that eventually resolve the main plot.
The Game Master can insert her own Savage Tales between the plot points, allowing the players to choose where they wander between those events that advance the larger story.
Companions

Savage Settings
Our Savage Settings are designed to be easy to read, run, and play. They focus on what players and Game Masters are most likely to need in their adventures and campaigns.

Companions dig deeper into the most important genres--such as fantasy, science fiction, super heroes, horror, and more.
Companions add new Edges and Hindrances, powers, monsters, and Setting Rules you can use to create your own world, or recreate your favorite book, movie, or even another tabletop or video game.

The ever-growing range for the DeadlandsTM setting, includes the setting book, books detailing the Weird West, Bennies, dice, pre-made character cards, and maps! We also offer card pawns and boxed campaign sets! Look for similar accessories for all our
Savage Settings.
7

Chapter One
Characters

Great heroes are more than a collection of statistics and numbers, but in a game system this is certainly where they begin. To make your hero, download a Savage Worlds character sheet from our website at www.peginc.com and follow the steps below.
Concept
Published Savage Settings often come with both character ideas and pregenerated "Archetypes." You can play these as-is or use them to spark your own ideas.
You might play an iconic gunslinger in Deadlands: The Weird West, for example, or you might try something a little different and play the innocent schoolmarm destined to save the town. Look through the player's section of your setting or talk to the GM if it's a world of her own creation to see what kind of character catches your interest.
Ancestry
Settings may feature everything from humans to strange aliens, graceful elves, or other exotic ancestries. You can choose to play any ancestry available in your particular setting.
A number of sample ancestries are detailed on pages 12 through 17, as well as rules for players and Game Masters to create their own.

Hindrances
Hindrances are flaws, drawbacks, or dark secrets drawn from a character's backstory.
You can take up to 4 points of Hindrances. A Major Hindrance is worth 2 points, and a Minor is worth 1. A hero could thus take two Major Hindrances, four Minor, or any combination that adds up to 4 points. (You can take more Hindrances if you want but the maximum benefit is 4 points!)
Taking Hindrances not only helps you define and roleplay your hero, but also gives you additional points you can use to start with additional attribute or skill points, Edges, or even money for gear.
For 2 points you can: · Raise an attribute one die type, or · Choose an Edge.
For 1 point you can: · Gain another skill point, or · Gain additional starting funds equal to
twice your setting's starting amount.
Traits
Characters are defined by attributes and skills, collectively called "Traits," and both work in exactly the same way. Attributes and skills are ranked by die types, typically from d4 to d12, with d6 being the average for adult humans. Higher is better!

9

SAVAGE WORLDS

Attributes
Every character starts with a d4 in each of five attributes: Agility, Smarts, Spirit, Strength, and Vigor (discussed in more detail on page 29).
You then have 5 points to increase your attributes. Raising a d4 to a d6, for example, costs 1 point. You're free to spend these points however you like, except that no attribute may ever be raised above a d12 unless an ancestral ability says otherwise (such as Attribute Increase, page 18). If it does, each increase beyond a d12 adds a +1 modifier. Increasing a d12 Strength two steps, for example, is a Strength score of d12 + 2 .
R ed
cNhaosrhmaea'cstttpeerlrayisiwnahgla,wtEasmyesitl"yt'Risnegd." aadRsainpfeldefdwcelattoryasysekawnSelhtstterowonnoohsnrdhegirelf,dfwSfseamr, rnbaidueertnnerttdis,ss. Sthhe'agsteatcloshonersctuairnnittolruysos...ueabemltesr...taoit

Skills
Skills are learned abilities such as firing weapons, hand-to-hand combat, scientific knowledge, professional aptitudes, and so on.
Skills in Savage Worlds are very broad to keep the action simple and straightforward. The Shooting skill, for example, covers all types of guns, bows, rocket launchers, and other ranged weapons.
Core Skills: Five skills are marked with a red star in the list that begins on page 29: Athletics, Common Knowledge, Notice, Persuasion, and Stealth. These are "innate" abilities most adult adventurers have. Unless an ancestral ability (page 18), Edge, or Hindrance says otherwise, your character starts with a d4 in each of these five core skills.
Buying Skills: After core skills are assigned, you have 12 additional points to raise core skills or buy and raise new skills as you see fit.
Each die type costs 1 point (starting at d4) as long as the skill is equal to or less than the attribute it's linked to (listed beside the skill in parentheses, in the list starting on page 58). If you exceed the linked attribute, the cost becomes 2 points per die type.
Skill Maximums: Skills may not be increased above d12 during character creation unless the character's ancestry starts with the skill at d6. If the skill starts with a d6, increase her maximum to d12 + 1. Celestials (page 21) start with a d6 in Faith, for example, which means their Faith skill may be increased to d12 + 1.
Derived Statistics
Your character sheet contains a few other statistics you need to fill in, described below.
Pace is how fast your character moves in tactical situations like combat. Standard Pace is 6, which means six tabletop inches per game round. Each inch is two yards in the real world. Movement is explained in detail on page 92.
Parry is equal to 2 plus half your character's Fighting die type (a total of 2 if a character doesn't have Fighting), plus any bonuses for shields or certain weapons. This is the Target Number (TN) to hit your hero in hand-tohand combat.

10

Characters

For Fighting skills higher than d12, such as Unless your setting book or GM says

d12 + 1 , add half the fixed modifier, rounded otherwise, the standard starting amount is

down. For instance, Fighting d12 + 1 grants $500. A list of common gear and weapons can

a Parry of 8, while Fighting d12 + 2 results in be found in Chapter Two.

a Parry of 9.

Depending on the setting, this might be

Size: A hero's default Size is 0 unless altered everything the character owns or it may

by ancestral abilities, Edges, or Hindrances. It represent their "adventuring" gear, with their

cannot be less than -1 or more than +3.

more mundane belongings stored at a home

Toughness is your hero's damage thres or apartment. The latter is up to the Game

hold. Damage rolls that equal or exceed Master. In modern settings, most everyone

this number cause harm (explained later in should have a home, clothes, appliances,

Chapter Three).

and so on. The equipment you list on your

Toughness is 2 plus half your hero's Vigor, plus Armor (use the armor worn on his torso -- see page 69). Vigor over a d12 is

character sheet should be your character's "adventuring" gear rather than an exhaustive list of everything she owns.

calculated just like Parry, above.

Players don't have to worry about how

much they can carry in most games, but if

Edges

it becomes important, see Encumbrance on page 67.

Attributes and skills are a character's

basic statistics, but what really makes individuals different are their Edges. Even two legionaries in Weird Wars Rome with identical Traits play vastly different depending on the Edges they take. One might focus on Leadership Edges that let him rally his fellow soldiers while

Background Details
Finish your new hero by filling in any additional history or background you care to. Ask yourself why she's where she is and what her goals are. Where does she live? Does she have any close friends or family who might be relevant to the game?

another concentrates on taking

Or just start playing and fill in these

out large numbers of foes at

details as they become important

once with Sweep or Frenzy.

and you walk around in her

Characters get Edges

shoes a bit.

by taking Hindrances

You might also want to talk

(see page 9), from

to the other players. Maybe

ancestral abilities (such

your characters know each

as Humans' Adaptability,

other right from the start.

page 16), or Advances

Or you might col-

once play begins (page 54).

lectively decide to

A comprehensive list of Edges starts on page 37. Your setting book likely has additional abilities specific to that world or genre as well.

optimize your group a bit and ensure you've got a good assortment of skills and abilities. If so, make sure you're playing what you want to play. There's no point in

Gear

being the party's healer if that's not a role you're interested in.

Some settings provide your

hero with all the gear she

needs. Most simply grant a starting

amount of funds you can use to purchase whatever you like from a relevant list of weapons, armor, and adventuring gear.

Roman C entur ion... These g uys mean business!

11

SAVAGE WORLDS

Ancestries
Not every hero is human. Below are sample ancestries common to many science fiction and fantasy settings. Use them as they are or modify them to fit your particular world. After these examples are guidelines for creating your own ancestries as well.
Note that the ancestries allude to a lot of rules we haven't explained yet. Just skim them for now and come back once you've got a grasp on the rest of the game.
Androids
Androids are semi-organic beings created by advanced technology. The example here mimics humans in most ways and can generally pass for them when desired (and not examined by a physician). Their advanced neural network gives them artificial intelligence complete with individual personalities, quirks, and emotions just like any other sapient being.
The android version presented here is a generic model. To create more specialized androids, use the custom ancestral abilities starting on page 18.
 PACIFIST (Major): Unless the android is designed for combat, most advanced societies require the installation of "Asimov Circuits," a concept based on science fiction writer Isaac Asimov's "First Law of Robotics." The artificial being may not injure a sapient being, or through action or inaction, allow such a being to be harmed. This gives them the Pacifist (Major) Hindrance.

 CONSTRUCT: Androids add +2 to recover from being Shaken, don't breathe, ignore one level of Wound modifiers, and are immune to poison and disease. Constructs cannot heal naturally. Healing one requires the Repair skill, which takes one hour per current Wound level per attempt and is not limited to the "Golden Hour" (see page 96).
 OUTSIDER (Major): Androids subtract 2 from Persuasion rolls when interacting with anyone besides other androids, and have no legal rights in most areas (they're generally considered property).
 VOW (Major): Constructs are designed with a particular purpose. Player character constructs have broad directives such as serving a particular corporation or political faction. This acts as a Major Vow to that particular directive. If this ever causes a conflict of interest, the player and GM must figure out what the construct's programming requires.
Aamlntindeerrroasids, ensnoetleeddrieedtrafsin,oerr s, or whatever .

12

Characters

Aquarians
From the crushing ocean depths come aquatic folk. They are thick and sturdy beneath the waves but often vulnerable in the dry air or searing heat of the surface.
 AQUATIC: Aquarians cannot drown in water and move at their full Pace when swimming. See Movement on page 92 for normal swimming rates.
 DEPENDENCY: Aquarians must immerse them selves in water one hour out of every 24 or become automatically Fatigued each day until they are Incapacitated. The day after Incapacitation from dehydration, they perish. Each hour spent in water restores one level of Fatigue.
 LOW LIGHT VISION: Aquarians are used to the darkness of the depths. They ignore penalties for Dim and Dark Illumination.
 TOUGHNESS: Life in the depths of their watery worlds has made aquarian flesh tough and resilient. Add +1 to their Toughness.

Avions

Avions are humanoids with wings. They tend to be very slight of build owing to their hollow bones. Some are feathered while others are leathery or even scaled.

CAN'T SWIM: Avions' wings are a hazard in water. They subtract 2 from Athletics (swimming) rolls and each inch moved in water costs them 3 of Pace.

FLIGHT: Avions fly at Pace 12 per round. Use Athletics when maneuvering.

FRAIL: Avions have -1 Toughness due to their hollow bones.

 KEEN SENSES: Avions are more perceptive than most. They begin with a d6 in Notice (instead of d4) and may raise the skill to d12 + 1.

REDUCED PACE: Dependence on flight and bulky

wings make avions slightly slower when walking.

Decrease their walking Pace by 1 and their running die

by one step.

13

SAVAGE WORLDS

Dwarves
Dwarves are short but stout, hardy people who come from massive caverns or high mountains. They are a proud, warlike people, usually made so by frequent contact with hostile creatures such as orcs and goblins.
Dwarves usually live upwards of 200 years. In most fantasy campaigns, they have ruddy skin and all human hair colors.
 LOW LIGHT VISION: Dwarven eyes are accustomed to the dark of the underearth. They ignore penalties for Dim and Dark Illumination.
 REDUCED PACE: Dwarves have short legs compared to most. Decrease their Pace by 1 and their running die one die type.
 TOUGH: Dwarves are stout and tough. They start with a d6 Vigor instead of a d4. This increases maximum Vigor to d12 + 1.
Elves
Elves are tall, thin souls with pointed ears and deep-set eyes of various colors. Whether they hail from the deep forests or hidden valleys, they are all born more graceful than humans,
though somewhat slighter. Most elves live upwards of 300 years. They have fair skin and their hair includes all human colors, plus shades of silver, blue, and gold.
AGILE: Elves are graceful and agile. They start with a d6 in Agility instead of a d4. This increases maximum Agility to d12 + 1.
ALL THUMBS: Elves have an inherent dislike of mechanical objects, and thus have the All Thumbs Hindrance. They shun most mechanical items and designs.
LOW LIGHT VISION: Elven eyes amplify light. Others often claim they can see stars in the elves' eyes. They ignore penalties for Dim and Dark Illumination.
14

Characters

Half-Elves
Half-elves gain the elves' grace but none of their elegant frailty. Most are well-adjusted, but some are shunned by one side of the family or the other and grow resentful. Others may even be mistreated. Their lifespans are closer to their human parent than those of their elven kin, living only to about 100 years.
 HERITAGE: Half-elves may retain the grace of their elven parent or the adaptability of their human ancestry. A half-elf may either start with a free Novice Edge of his choice or a d6 in Agility instead of a d4 (which also increases his Agility maximum to d12 + 1).
 LOW LIGHT VISION: Half-elves ignore penalties for Dim and Dark Illumination.
 OUTSIDER (Minor): Half-elves are never quite comfortable in human or elven society, having a foot in both worlds but never fully standing in either. They subtract 2 from Persuasion rolls with all but others of their kind.
Half-Folk
Half-folk are small, nimble people with fuzzy brown or black hair. Though they are frail compared to most other species, their cheerful optimism (or wily cunning) gives them a "never say die" attitude that makes them more than a match for creatures twice their size. Half-folk see no reason to invite trouble and tend to live in their own close-knit communities far off the beaten path.
 LUCK: Half-folk draw one additional Benny per game session.
 REDUCED PACE: Decrease the character's Pace by 1 and their running die one die type.
 SIZE -1: Half-folk average only about four feet tall, reducing their Size (and therefore Toughness) by 1.
 SPIRITED: Half-folk are generally optimistic beings. They start with a d6 Spirit instead of a d4. This increases their maximum Spirit to d12 + 1.
15

SAVAGE WORLDS

Humans
Humans in most settings get one free Edge of their choice. This option reflects their versatility and adaptability compared to most other ancestries.
For more variety, the GM might give humans abilities based on culture. For instance, a nomadic, horse-based society might start with skill points in Riding and Survival. Cultural templates are designed just like making new ancestries, though GMs should allow for more exceptions than usual since the abilities tend to be learned rather than truly innate.
 ADAPTABLE: Humans begin play with any Novice Edge of their choosing. They must meet its Requirements as usual.
Rakashans
Rakashans are humanoid felines. Some have the bright colors of tigers, the speckled hides of leopards, or the exotic look of Siamese cats. All have sharp claws and teeth, and a cruel nature when it comes to dealing with their prey.
Rakashans can be found in their own remote and exotic cities or as fringe elements of normal society. They are often too clever and beautiful to be shunned, but too cunning to gain others' complete trust.
 AGILE: Feline grace gives rakashans a d6 Agility attribute instead of a d4. This increases maximum Agility to d12 + 1.
 BITE/CLAWS: Rakashan fangs and claws are Natural Weapons (page 104) that cause Strength+d4 damage.
 BLOODTHIRSTY: Rakashans can be cruel to their foes, often toying with them for simple amusement. They rarely take prisoners and feel little compunction about punishing captured foes.
 CAN'T SWIM: Rakashans actually can swim, they just shun it and are not particularly good at it. They subtract 2 from Athletics (swimming) rolls and each tabletop inch of movement in water uses 3 of Pace.
 LOW LIGHT VISION: Rakashan eyes amplify light. They ignore penalties for Dim and Dark Illumination.
 ANCESTRAL ENEMY: Rakashan society rose at the expense of another. Pick a common ancestry in your setting. Members of each culture subtract 2 from Persuasion when dealing with each other and often attack on sight.
16

Characters

Saurians
Lizard men typically come from steaming jungles or deep deserts where they have unique civilizations unknown to other sentient beings.  ARMOR +2: Saurians have scaly skin
that acts as leather armor.  BITE: A saurian's fangs are Natural Weapons
(page 104) that cause Strength+d4 damage.  ENVIRONMENTAL WEAKNESS: Though not truly
cold-blooded, saurians are poorly suited for frigid conditions. They suffer a -4 penalty to resist cold environmental effects, and suffer +4 damage from cold-based attacks.  KEEN SENSES: Saurians have acute senses, giving them the Alertness Edge.  OUTSIDER (Minor): Most species distrust saurians for some reason. Perhaps it is their strange ways and customs, their often-sibilant speech, or an ancient subconscious fear of their reptilian ancestors. Saurians subtract 2 from Persuasion rolls with all but others of their kind.
Breaking the Mold
The ancestral archetypes presented here are iconic of their usual appearance in fantasy and science fiction, but players and Game Masters should feel free to break the tropes if they fit your particular setting.
Maybe rakashans in your world have wings. Or aquarians are primitive, eight-armed cannibals who hunt more developed species on a post-apocalyptic water world. You can also make different versions of the same ancestry. Perhaps the rakashans of one area evolved to resist cold (they're more like snow leopards), while another sprang from cheetahs (and have Fleet-Footed as an ancestral ability). The limit lies only in your imagination and desire to create something new and unusual!
pi"atIcskicfnioosvtwercaa,mtfgardirieslncdvie,enogtreitsaatrlweihaoonp'a.sDraodlnim'ztaajnrubddygmehaiasnsbaponoodtksab."y--R ed
17

Making ancestries

SAVAGE WORLDS

Game Masters and players who want to make their own ancestries (or cultural archetypes) can use the system below. Our ancestries are designed with the following rules:
· Ancestries and cultures begin with 2 points of positive ancestral abilities. Additional positive abilities must be countered with an equal value of negative ones. A +2 ability, for example, may be countered by a single -2 ability or two -1 abilities.
· If you want to include an ability we haven't included here, simply assign it a value based on the examples below.
Names: Don't be afraid to rename abilities to give your setting more flavor. If you want your horse nomads to have Riding skill at d6, for example, you might call it Born in the Saddle. It's all about creating rich flavor rather than lists of abilities your players have to keep up with.

POSITIVE ANCESTRAL ABILITIES

The number in parentheses after the name of each entry is the number of times the particular enhancement may be taken. "U" means unlimited.

VALUE ABILITY

2

Adaptable (1): The ancestry has great variation among its people and cultures. Characters start with a free Novice Edge of their choice (and must meet all the Edge's Requirements).

5

Additional Action (1): The being has additional appendages, enhanced reflexes, or exceptional eye-hand coordination. He may ignore 2 points of Multi-Action penalties each turn.

Aquatic/Semi-Aquatic (1): For one point the character is semi-aquatic and can hold his breath 1/2 for 15 minutes before checking for drowning. For two, he's native to the water. He cannot drown
in oxygenated liquid and moves his full Pace when swimming (see Movement, page 92).

1

Armor (3): The species has a thick hide or is encrusted in solid material like scaly plating or even rock. This grants Armor +2 each time it's taken.

Attribute Increase (U): During character creation, the species increases a particular attribute

2

(Agility, Smarts, Spirit, Strength, or Vigor) one die type. This increases the Trait's maximum

by one as well.

1

Bite (1): The species has fangs that cause Strength + d4 damage. See Natural Weapons, page 104 for more information.

Burrowing (1): The species can burrow into loose earth and move through it at half normal

Pace (he cannot run). He cannot normally be attacked while burrowing, and can attempt to

1

surprise opponents who didn't see him coming by making an opposed Stealth vs. Notice

roll. If successful, the burrower adds +2 to his attack and damage rolls that round, or +4 with

a raise (he has The Drop, page 100).

2/3/4

Claws (1): The being has claws that cause Str + d4 damage. One more point may be spent to increase their damage to Strength + d6, and/or another to add AP 2. See Natural Weapons, page 104 for more information.

Construct (1): Constructs are artificial beings made of inorganic material. They add +2 to

recover from being Shaken, ignore one level of Wound modifiers, don't breathe, and are

8

immune to disease and poison. Wounds must be mended via the Repair skill. Each attempt

takes one hour per current Wound level and ignores the "Golden Hour." Many Constructs

have the Dependency negative ancestral ability (reflecting their need for a power source).

2

Doesn't Breathe (1): The species does not breathe. Individuals aren't affected by inhaled toxins, can't drown, and don't suffocate in a vacuum. (They may still freeze, however.)

Edge (U): All members of this species have the same innate Edge chosen from those available 2+X in the setting. Unlike Adaptable, this ability ignores Requirements except other Edges. Each
Rank beyond Novice costs an additional point to a maximum of Heroic Rank (5).

Environmental Resistance (U): The species receives a +4 bonus to resist a single negative

1

environmental effect, such as heat, cold, lack of air, radiation, etc. Damage from that source

is also reduced by 4.

18

Characters

2/4/6 2 1/2 1 1 2 1 1 2 1
1/3
2/1 1 2/3
1 1/2 1/2 1 2+X 1 1

Flight (1): The species can fly at Pace 6 (or 12 for 4 points) and "run" for extra movement as usual. For 6 points, the being can fly at Pace 24 and may "run" for 2d6 of additional movement. Maneuvering uses the Athletics skill. Flight presumes some kind of wings which can be targeted or fouled (a Bound or Entangled character cannot fly).
Hardy (1): A second Shaken result in combat does not cause a Wound.
Horns (1): The being has a horn or horns that cause Str + d4 damage (or Str + d6 for 2 points). See Natural Weapons, page 104, for more information.
Immune to Poison or Disease (2): The species is immune to poison or disease (your choice). It may be taken twice for both effects.
Infravision (1): The creature "sees" heat, either through eyes or other sensory organs. This halves Illumination penalties when attacking warm targets (including invisible beings).
Leaper (1): The character can jump twice as far as listed under Movement, page 92. In addition, he adds +4 to damage when leaping as part of a Wild Attack instead of the usual +2 (unless in a closed or confined space where he cannot leap horizontally or vertically -- GM's call).
Low Light Vision (1): The being ignores penalties for Dim or Dark illumination (but not Pitch Darkness).
No Vital Organs (1): These species have hidden, extremely tough, or redundant vital organs. Called Shots do no extra damage against them.
Pace (2): The character's Pace is increased by +2 and his running die is increased a die type.
Parry (3): The creature's natural Parry is increased by +1. This may be due to a prehensile tail, extra limbs, enhanced reflexes, or even latent psi-sense.
Poisonous Touch (1): With a successful Touch Attack (page 108), bite, or claw, the victim must roll Vigor or suffer the effects of Mild Poison. For 3 points the poison can be upgraded to Knockout, Lethal, or Paralyzing instead, but each use causes the hero Fatigue. The character may always choose whether or not to use her poison touch. See page 129 for Poison and its effects.
Power (U): The species has an innate ability that functions like a power (see page 147). For 2 points, individuals have Arcane Background (Gifted) and a power that reflects their unusual ability. Each time this is taken after the first costs 1 point and grants another power. It does not increase an individual's Power Points--use the Power Points Edge for that.
Reach (3): Long limbs, tentacles, etc. grant the creature Reach +1 (add +1 each time it's taken after the first).
Regeneration (1): The being heals damage quickly. She may make a natural healing roll once per day (rather than every five days). For 3 points, permanent injuries may be recovered once all other Wounds are regenerated. Treat each injury as an additional Wound for purposes of recovery (the being may try once per week).
Size +1 (3): The creature is larger than normal. Each point of Size adds directly to Toughness and increases maximum Strength one step. Large species may have difficulty using equipment designed for more traditional humanoids. See page 106 for more on Size.
Skill (1/skill): The character starts with a d4 in a skill inherent to her species or culture. For 2 points (or 1 if already a core skill), it starts at d6 and the skill's maximum increases to d12 + 1.
Skill Bonus (Once per Skill): Biological factors give the species a +1/+2 bonus when using a particular skill. Beings that emit pheromones, for example, might have a +1 bonus to Persuasion.
Sleep Reduction (2): The being needs half the normal amount of sleep as humans. If taken a second time, the being never sleeps.
Super Powers (1): The ancestry has truly extraordinary abilities taken from the Savage Worlds Super Powers Companion. The cost is 2--for Arcane Background (Super Powers)-- plus the actual cost of the power selected (X). Make sure you have the GM's permission before taking this powerful ability.
Toughness (3): The character has hardened skin, scales, or extremely dense tissue that increases his base Toughness by +1.
Wall Walker (1): The species may walk on vertical surfaces normally, or inverted surfaces at half Pace.

19

SAVAGE WORLDS

NEGATIVE ANCESTRAL ABILITIES

VALUE ABILITY

-2/­3

Attribute Penalty (Once per Attribute): One attribute (but not its linked skills) suffers a ­1 penalty. For 3 points, it suffers a ­2 penalty. If Strength, this applies to damage as well.

Big (1): The race is particularly large in a world where most others aren't. He subtracts 2 from -2 Trait rolls when using equipment that wasn't specifically designed for his race and cannot
wear their armor or clothing. Equipment, food, and clothing cost double the listed price.

Cannot Speak (1): The species has no vocal cords or cannot form the sounds made by most other beings. He can communicate with members of his own ancestry naturally (through -1 song, pheromones, body language, etc.). Other ancestries can't speak his "language" but may learn to understand him if they take the proper Language skill. The species can hear and understand other typical languages and may communicate via electronic devices or the like.

Dependency (1): The being must consume or have contact with some sort of relatively common substance for an hour out of every 24. Creatures from water-based worlds, for example, might -2 need to immerse themselves in water; plant people might need sunlight. Without the required contact, a character becomes Fatigued each day until Incapacitated. A day after that, they perish. Each hour spent recovering with the appropriate substance restores a level of Fatigue.

Environmental Weakness (U): The species suffers a ­4 penalty to resist a particular -1 environmental effect, such as heat, cold, etc. If the being suffers an attack based on that
form, the penalty acts as a bonus to damage.

-1 Frail (2): The creature is less durable than most. Reduce its Toughness by 1.

-1/­2

Hindrance (U): The being has an inherent Minor Hindrance for 1 point, or a Major Hindrance for 2. This doesn't affect the ability to choose other Hindrances during character creation.

-1 Poor Parry (3): These beings are poor melee defenders; ­1 Parry.

Ancestral Enemy (U): This species dislikes another species relatively common to the setting. -1 They suffer a ­2 penalty to Persuasion rolls when dealing with their rivals and may become
hostile with little provocation. This may only be taken once per ancestry.

-1

Reduced Core Skills (5): This species starts with one less core skill. The skill may be gained normally but does not start at a d4. This may be taken once per core skill affected.

-1/­2

Reduced Pace (1): For ­1 point, reduce Pace by 1 and the running die a die type (d4 is reduced to d4­1). For ­2 points, reduce Pace another 2 points and subtract 2 from Athletics and rolls to resist Athletics where movement and mobility are integral to the challenge (GM's call).

-1

Size ­1 (1): The entity is smaller than average, reducing its Size and Toughness by 1 (see the Size Table, page 179).

-1/­2

Skill Penalty (Once per Skill): The species suffers a ­1 penalty to a very commonly used skill such as Fighting, Persuasion, or even Piloting in a game focused on airplanes (the GM decides based on her campaign). If the skill is less common or only comes up in certain situations, the penalty is -2. For 2 points, the penalty is -2/-4 instead.

Celestials & Guardians
EfoTgC(fgspoMirmihtneeorvaEEatcligaieiremsntelAmjtsu'hsyosststitatserilihtw8lo)ryias--rysednsilpwwi'bsmiitscPnoauhaaiarrcigtnFtrnenhoAereueasattatAstiasIdetrvth(nirtcehahalnaeodctlspnugygarpTihmtdeaetmosahuadnadaenbsumsansk6rhlsepnmveeiae(a"slb(e2nhrbaV()nEle2tp,ineeseihtnrgoeyahfepfedoaotion)duoncnrrrfdEsimeoto)gn-staltfrhfe1)etaworo,sl,se-ntDsF)rgithE2.limflaeca.lamiaTptyhgnlSeihshoridhsaoehl,laie"mytoktynaevyh(wntfic4pea'edsicrda)gnnrioee,a+omudnttacnt4nahwroinipdmlscdeespdoa+.seoAwsuToi4Aspaags,ihnhhnmonnrtasecaocgiotlfe--yenrasliesdgf'stnVlriptsoshhaegere.olfanentdhatEBwloetgytoanmahEudeenntec(enghrlMie'kcssltheeldeygucerma,sashr"ergthjtonovhaaI4yriauonrdarilevplv(an--fnlnyDeeoocstdargtghriwePoenbns(iemerMvrfiiattinooslserloHitstfigtseonare.icesct"afetrcshh,lhhecstnla&Tae,lenheneeimhsmougEnsdiDoetl)amspnohscet(sttdiheg2aeivehaoveylrainpeanlTel.dsCirfcosgitoa)eemiyhionnrflbv)hateoeftceahfmssurseosttt,msfmt-hirpotltas1eher-iiraolraoes2pntadulnmthospc(haesea,liEobuemenansEdiysiatonglo.d.VgiltSaetSngsesoi+llhhehiesswt(2cese)o)oe2... balance everything back to +4. 20

Characters

Celestials
Angels are a great and varied lot, but all have these traits in common.
 ALL THUMBS: Celestials are not accustomed to technology or machines.
 ARCANE BACKGROUND (Miracles): Celestials can call forth a variety of blessed miracles.
 FAITH: All celestials start with a d6 in Faith. This increases their maximum to d12 + 1.
 FLIGHT: Angels fly at Pace 12.
 ANCESTRAL ENEMY (Demons & Devils): Those who descend from above do not easily tolerate those who crawl forth from the Abyss.
 VOW (Major--Protect humanity): The blessed must protect the flock that remains on the ravaged Earth.
Guardians
Those humans who serve the Heavenly Choir are called guardians.
 ADAPTABLE: Guardians begin play with any Novice Edge of their choosing (meeting its Requirements as usual).
 CHAMPIONS: Guardians have the Champion Edge, giving them a +2 bonus to damage against supernaturally evil foes such as demons and devils.
 VIGOROUS: Those humans who have inherited this blasted Earth start the game with a d6 Vigor instead of a d4. This increases their Vigor maximum to d12 + 1.
 VOW (Major--Protect humanity): The blessed must protect the remain ing flock on Earth.

"Not r eady to be yet, but I so wanna

an ang el play this!"

--R ed

21

SAVAGE WORLDS

Hindrances

All Thumbs (Minor)
Due to upbringing, lack of exposure, or

pure bad luck, some individuals are "all

Hindrances are character flaws and physical handicaps that occasionally make life a little tougher for your hero.
Some Hindrances have actual game effects. Other, more subjective "roleplaying" Hindrances help you understand and roleplay your character. They should occasionally cause her to act in ways that aren't necessarily

thumbs" when it comes to mechanical or technological devices.
All Thumbs inflicts a -2 penalty when using mechanical or electrical devices. If he rolls a Critical Failure while using such a device (and it doesn't already have a built-in effect), it's broken. If the GM feels it's appropriate, it can be fixed with a Repair roll and 1d6 hours.

smart, efficient, or in the best interests of the party or the overall goal. That's what roleplaying games are all about, and the GM should reward you with Bennies when your Hindrances cause significant trouble.

Anemic (Minor)
Anemic characters are particularly susceptible to sickness, disease, environmental effects, and fatigue. They subtract 2 from Vigor rolls made to resist Fatigue (see Hazards, starting

on page 125).

Arrogant (Major)
Your hero doesn't think he's the best -- he knows he is. Whether it's swordsmanship, kung fu, or painting, few compare to his skills and he flaunts it every chance he gets.
Winning isn't enough for this champion. He wants to dominate his opponent and prove there's no one better. He's the kind of fighter who disarms an opponent in a duel just to pick the sword up and hand it back with a smirk. Arrogant individuals look for the greatest threat in battle, hacking their way through lesser minions only because they're in the way.

G abe
Nate always plays "G abe," a no-nonsense toug h g uy with a g r uff exter ior but
a hear t of pur e g old.
In advanced setting s he's tech-savvy. In fantasy games
he's usually a knig ht or war r ior of some sor t.

Bad Eyes (Minor or Major)
Your hero's eyes aren't what they used to be. He suffers a -1 penalty to any Trait roll dependent on vision (such as ranged attacks and Notice rolls) or -2 as a Major Hindrance.
In settings where glasses are available, they negate the penalty when worn. If lost or broken during a combat (generally a 50% chance when he's Wounded, falls, or suffers some other trauma), the character is Distracted (and Vulnerable if a Major Hindrance) until the end of their next turn.
Bad Luck (Major)
Your hero is a little less lucky than most. He gets one less Benny per game session than normal. A character cannot have both Bad Luck and the Luck Edge.

22

Characters

Big Mouth (Minor)
Loose lips sink ships, the saying goes. This hero's mouth could drown an armada.
The blabbermouth can't keep a secret very well. He reveals plans and gives away things best kept among friends, usually at the worst possible times.
Blind (Major)
The individual is completely without sight. He suffers a -6 to all physical tasks that require vision (GM's call). On the plus side, Blind characters gain their choice of a free Edge to compensate for this particularly difficult Hindrance.
Bloodthirsty (Major)
Your hero never takes prisoners unless under the direct supervision of a superior. His cold-blooded ruthlessness causes enemies to respond in kind, often costs vital information, creates constant enemies, and may get him in trouble with his superiors or the authorities, depending on the setting.
Can't Swim (Minor)
Most people in the 21st century can swim thanks to swimming pools, easy travel to lakes and beaches, or educational efforts. Historically, however, those who weren't raised around a temperate body of water could not.
Characters with this Hindrance suffer a -2 penalty to the Athletics skill when swimming and each inch moved in water costs 3 of Pace. See Movement (page 92) for more details and Drowning (page 126).
Cautious (Minor)
This planner personifies restraint and carefulness. He never makes rash decisions and likes to plot things out in detail long before any action is taken.
Clueless (Major)
Your hero doesn't pay much attention to the world around him and can't seem to find a haystack in a small pile of needles.

He suffers a -1 penalty to Common Know ledge and Notice rolls.
Clumsy (Major)
Your hero is an uncoordinated klutz who trips over air and is always the last one picked for sports. He subtracts 2 from Athletics and Stealth rolls.
Code of Honor (Major)
Honor is very important to your character. He keeps his word, doesn't abuse or kill prisoners, and generally tries to operate within his world's particular notion of proper gentlemanly or ladylike behavior.
Curious (Major)
It killed the cat, and it might kill your warrior as well. Curious characters have to check out everything and always want to know what's behind a potential mystery or secret.
Death Wish (Minor)
Having a death wish doesn't mean your adventurer is suicidal -- he might just think his life is worth less than some noble but clearly deadly goal.
Those with a Death Wish don't throw their lives away for no reason, but when there's a
chance to complete a goal they do anything -- and take any risk--to achieve it.
Delusional (Minor or Major)
Your hero believes something that is considered quite strange by everyone else. Minor Delusions are harmless or the character generally keeps it to himself (the government puts sedatives in soft drinks, dogs can talk, we're all just characters in some bizarre game, etc.).
With a Major Delusion, he expresses his view on the situation frequently and it can occasionally lead to danger
(the government is run by aliens, hospitals are deadly, I'm allergic to armor, zombies are my friends).

23

Doubting Thomas (Minor)

Greedy (Minor or Major)

Some people don't believe in the supernatural A miser measures worth in material

until they're halfway down some creature's possessions or wealth. If a Minor Hindrance,

SAVAGE WORLDS

gullet. Doubting Thomases are skeptics who he argues bitterly for more than his fair share

try their best to rationalize supernatural of any loot or reward the party might come

events. They walk right into danger they don't across. As a Major Hindrance, he fights

believe in and look for alternate explanations over anything he considers unfair, and may

to every supernatural event.

even kill for it if he feels slighted or covets

Even after being confronted with undeniable something he cannot have.

truth, the doubter's mind eventually begins to doubt what he saw, rationalizes it away, or

Habit (Minor or Major)

compartmentalizes the event as "one of a kind" Your warrior has an annoying or dangerous

while continuing to doubt the next mystery. compulsion. A Minor Habit irritates those

around her but isn't dangerous. Maybe she

Driven (Minor or Major)
A vow is a commitment to others. Driven characters want something for themselves. It may be to protect the realm, become a deco-

picks her nose, can't stop fiddling with her phone, says "y'know" in the middle of every sentence, or chews and smacks her gum loudly and often. Allies avoid her if possible.

rated officer, prove you're the best gladiator A Major Habit is a physical or mental

in Rome, or the best pilot in the galactic fleet. addiction of some sort that is debilitating

The Minor version shapes the character and pushes his decisions but either happens rarely or is fairly harmless. As a Major Hindrance it's an overriding desire that comes up

or possibly even deadly. This includes drug use, chronic drinking, or perhaps even an addiction to virtual reality in a hightech setting.

frequently or causes peril for the heroine and An addict who doesn't get his fix must make

those around her.

a Vigor roll every 24 hours he goes without or

Elderly (Major)
Your adventurer is getting on in years, but he's not quite ready for the nursing home yet. His Pace is reduced by 1, and he subtracts 1 from running rolls (minimum 1). He also suffers a -1 penalty to Agility, Strength (including

take a level of Fatigue (see page 100).
Once every 24 hours, a Healing roll with some sort of appropriate medicine removes one level of Fatigue for four hours. After that the Fatigue returns and can only be recovered with the addicting substance.

damage), and Vigor rolls, but not linked skills. Hard of Hearing (Minor or Major)

On the plus side, the wisdom of his years Characters who have lost some or all of their

grants the hero 5 extra skill points which may hearing have this disadvantage. As a Minor

be used for any skills linked to Smarts.

Hindrance, it subtracts 4 from all Notice

Enemy (Minor or Major)

rolls made to hear, including awaking due to loud noises. A Major Hindrance means

Someone out there hates the character and the character is deaf. She cannot hear and

wants him ruined, locked away, or dead. automatically fails all Notice rolls that

The value of the Hindrance depends on how depend on hearing.

powerful the enemy is and how often he might show up. A Minor Enemy might be a lone gunslinger out for vengeance or a betrayed brotherhood that's deadly but appears rarely. A Major Enemy might represent powerful

Hearing aids reduce the penalty by 2, but require batteries and have a 50% chance of falling out when he's Wounded, falls, or suffers some other trauma.

authorities, a band of outlaws, or a single very Heroic (Major)

powerful and relentless rival.

This noble soul never says no to a person in

If the enemy is one day defeated, the GM need. She doesn't have to be happy about it,

should gradually work in a replacement, but she always comes to the rescue of those

or the hero may buy off the Hindrance by she feels can't help themselves. She's the first

sacrificing an Advance.

24

Characters

one to run into a burning building, usually agrees to hunt monsters for little or no pay, and is generally a pushover for a sob story.
Hesitant (Minor)
Your hero hesitates in stressful situations. Draw two Action Cards in combat and act on the lowest. If you draw a Joker, use it normally and ignore the Hindrance for the round (hence this being a Minor Hindrance, it actually increases your chances of drawing a Joker!)
Hesitant characters cannot take the Quick or Level Headed Edges.
Illiterate (Minor)
Your hero cannot read. He can sign his name and knows what a STOP sign says, but little else. He also doesn't know much about math. He can probably do 2+2=4, but multiplication and the like are beyond him.
Illiterate characters can't read or write in any language, by the way, no matter how many they actually speak.
Impulsive (Major)
The daredevil almost always leaps before he looks. He rarely thinks things through before taking action.
Jealous (Minor or Major)
Insecurity leads to envy of others' accomplish ments or being overly possessive of what this disgruntled soul feels belongs to him. He often complains, pouts, covets others' possessions or accolades, claims credit for another's work, disobeys commands, and generally causes problems.
As a Minor Hindrance, the character's jealousy is focused on one particular subject (such as his "unrivaled" skill as a pilot or a romantic interest).
As a Major Hindrance, the character is jealous of anyone and everyone he feels outshines him. He consistently bad-mouths his rivals, tries to upstage them, or actively plots to discredit those who threaten his ego.
Loyal (Minor)
This stalwart defender risks her life for her friends without hesitation. Some Loyal heroes may not act that way, but are the first

to come to their friends' rescue when they're threatened.
Mean (Minor)
This curmudgeon is ill-tempered and disagreeable. He has trouble doing anything kind for anyone else, must be paid for his troubles, and doesn't accept awards or favors graciously. Besides the obvious roleplaying issues, Mean characters subtract 1 from Persuasion rolls.
Mild Mannered (Minor)
Your milquetoast just isn't threatening. Maybe he's a little doughy around the middle, has a kind face, or a soft voice. Whatever the issue, he has a hard time looking tough. He subtracts 2 when making Intimidation rolls.
Mute (Major)
Due to trauma or birth, your character has lost the ability to speak. He can write messages to others when needed, use sign language, or some combination of visual communication.
Vison-based communication may require a Notice roll to perceive correctly (illumination and similar penalties apply).
Obese (Minor)
Those who carry their weight well have the Brawny Edge. Those who don't are Obese. A character cannot be both Brawny and Obese, and this Hindrance can't increase your Size above +3.
An Obese hero's Size (and therefore Toughness) increase by +1. His Pace is reduced by 1, and his running die one die type (minimum d4). Strength is considered one die type less (minimum d4) for armor and worn gear (not weapons). They may also have difficulty finding armor or clothing that fits or entering confined spaces.
Obligation (Minor or Major)
Your hero has a responsibility she must attend to on a daily or regular basis. It could be a job, volunteer work, taking care of family or friends, etc.
The Obligation consumes about 20 hours most weeks, or 40+ for the Major version. Exactly what that entails should be discussed between the player and the Game Master.

25

SAVAGE WORLDS

One Arm (Major)

Note that undeniably evil creatures, undead,

By birth or battle, your hero has lost an arm. demons, and the like are fair game even for Fortunately, his other arm is (now) his "good" Major Pacifists!

one. Tasks that require two hands, such as some Athletics rolls (GM's call) or using a two-handed weapon, suffer a -4 modifier.

Phobia (Minor or Major)
Phobias are overwhelming and irrational fears that plague a hero's psyche.

One Eye (Major)

Whenever a character is in the presence of

This veteran lost an eye and has trouble with his phobia (GM's call, but generally sight),

depth perception. He subtracts 2 from any he subtracts 1 from all his Trait rolls if it's a

Trait roll dependent on vision and more than Minor Hindrance, and 2 if it's Major.

5 (10 yards) distant.

Phobias shouldn't be too obvious; everyone

Outsider (Minor or Major)
In a society made up of only a few types of people, your hero isn't one of them. A Native American in a Western town, an alien in a scifi game of human marines, or a half-orc in

should be afraid of vampires, for example, so it's not a phobia, it's common sense. Instead, the phobia usually centers on some random element the mind associates with the event. Remember, phobias are irrational fears.

a party of elves, dwarves, and humans are all Poverty (Minor)

examples. Locals are likely to raise prices on It's said a fool and his money are soon parted.

her, ignore pleas for help, and generally treat Your hero is one of them. He starts with half

her as lower class.

the usual money for your setting and just

Outsiders subtract 2 from Persuasion can't seem to hang on to funds acquired after

rolls made to influence those who aren't her play begins. In general, the player halves his

own kind. The Major version also means total funds every game week.

the character has few or no legal rights in
the main campaign area. She might be a Quirk (Minor)

different species among xenophobes, the This individual has some minor foible that is

civilization may be cruel and unenlightened usually humorous but can occasionally cause

toward strangers, or she might even be an him real trouble. A swashbuckler may always

artificial intelligence whose sapience isn't try to slash his initials on his foes, a dwarf

acknowledged by the law.

may brag constantly about his culture, or a

Overconfident (Major)

snobby débutante might not eat, drink, or socialize with the lower class, for example.

There's nothing out there your hero can't
defeat. At least that's what he thinks. He Ruthless (Minor or Major)

believes he can do most anything and never The fanatic will do most anything to

wants to retreat from a challenge. He's not accomplish her goals. As a Major Hindrance,

suicidal, but he certainly takes on more than she harms anyone and everyone who gets in

common sense dictates.

her way. As a Minor Hindrance, she stops

Pacifist (Minor or Major)

short of true harm to anyone except those who directly oppose her.

Your hero absolutely despises violence. Minor
pacifism means he only fights when given no Secret (Minor or Major)

other choice and never allows the killing of Your hero has a secret she keeps to protect

prisoners or other defenseless victims.

herself or others. As a Minor Hindrance, the

Major Pacifists won't fight living characters secret is troublesome but not life-threatening.

under any circumstances. They may defend The Major version would cause severe

themselves, but won't do anything to problems if discovered. If it ever becomes

permanently harm sapient, living creatures. public knowledge, she should trade it

They may use nonlethal methods (see page for Enemy, Shamed, Wanted, or another

104), but only in self-defense or the defense appropriate Hindrance approved by the GM.

of others.

26

Characters

Shamed (Minor or Major)
Something haunts your adventurer. Maybe he made a vow he didn't keep. Maybe he was defeated in an honorable fight and ordered the death of his foe anyway for some greater principle. Maybe he isn't actually cowardly but once ran from a battle and left others to die.
As a Minor Hindrance, the shameful circumstances aren't generally known--it just haunts the hero. He might go out of his way, against all reason, not to repeat the mistake. Or he might give in to the same set of circumstances and hate himself for it.
As a Major Hindrance, his deed is wellknown--or at least known among those he cares about. The other player characters should be told the tale as soon as possible (preferably at character creation). If not, it should be revealed by nonplayer characters at some point, and occasionally used against the hero.
Slow (Minor or Major)
A disability or past injury has hindered this hero's mobility. As a Minor Hindrance, reduce his Pace by 1 and his running die one step (if already d4, reduce to d4 - 1 ). As a Major Hindrance, reduce the running die a step, Pace by 2, and subtract 2 from Athletics rolls and rolls to resist Athletics (such as Tests or Grappling).
Slow characters may not take the FleetFooted Edge.

Prosthesis: A character with the Minor version of this Hindrance may have a prosthesis. If the prosthesis is lost, he suffers the effects of the Major version of Slow.
Wheelchairs: From about the Victorian era forward, Slow heroes may start with a manual wheelchair at no cost. In the modern era (1980s and on), the character may also choose from an ultralight or powered chair.
All wheelchairs require reasonably smooth ground to operate (GM's call).
 MANUAL: Pace is half Athletics die (max of 3) and cannot run.
 ULTRALIGHT: Pace is half Athletics die and may run at d4 (Minor) or d4 - 1 (Major).
 POWERED: Pace 6 on flat, even ground, Pace 3 on uneven ground, cannot run. Most powered chairs can go about 10 miles before requiring a recharge.
Small (Minor)
This adventurer is very skinny, very short, or both. His Size (see page 106) is reduced by 1, which reduces his Toughness as well.
Size can't be reduced below -1, but the Toughness penalty remains. A Small half-folk, for example, remains Size -1 and loses a point of Toughness.
Stubborn (Minor)
Stubborn individuals always want their way and never admit they're wrong. Even when it's painfully obvious they've made a mistake

27

they try to justify it with half-truths and actions always escalate until total and

rationalizations.

complete satisfaction is achieved.

SAVAGE WORLDS

Suspicious (Minor or Major)
Your character is suspicious of everyone. As a Minor Hindrance, his paranoia causes frequent trust issues. He might demand full payment before doing a task, want every agreement in writing, or believe even his friends are out to get him.
As a Major Hindrance, Support rolls to aid the distrustful individual are made at -2.
Thin Skinned (Minor or Major)
Personal attacks really get under this individual's skin. As a Minor Hindrance, he subtracts 2 when resisting Taunt attacks. As a Major, he subtracts 4.
Timid (Major)
Not everyone has ice water in their veins. Your hero is squeamish at the sight of blood and gore and terrified of coming to harm. He subtracts 2 from Fear checks and when resisting Intimidation.
Tongue-Tied (Major)
Your adventurer flubs cool lines (or thinks of them afterwards!), goes off on tangents when he's trying to talk someone into something, and generally miscommunicates most everything he says.

Vow (Minor or Major)
The character has sworn an oath to someone or something he believes in.
The danger in fulfilling the Vow and how often it might occur determines the level of the Hindrance. A Minor Vow might be to serve an order with a broad mandate that rarely conflicts with the party's goals.
A Major Vow makes long-term and frequent demands on the servant's time and results in great risks to his life.
Wanted (Minor or Major)
Your hero has committed some crime and will be arrested if discovered by the authorities. This assumes the setting actually has laws and police officers to enforce them.
The level of the Hindrance depends on how serious the crime was and how active the hunters are. A hero with numerous unpaid parking tickets (in a game where he might have to drive occasionally) has a Minor Hindrance, as does someone wanted for more serious crimes away from the main campaign area. Being accused of murder is a Major Hindrance in almost any setting if there's someone around to seek justice (or vengeance).

He suffers a -1 penalty to Intimidation, Performance, Persuasion, and Taunt rolls that involve speech.
Ugly (Minor or Major)
Attractive people get all the breaks. This unfortunate individual isn't one of them. He subtracts 1 from his Persuasion rolls, or 2 if taken as a Major Hindrance.
Vengeful (Minor or Major)
Payback is...well...bad news for someone, and this adventurer is going to get it.
As a Minor Hindrance she usually seeks vengeance legally. The method varies by situation. Some plot and scheme for months while others demand immediate results.
Those with the Major version of this Hindrance don't let anything prevent them from a reckoning. This doesn't mean they immediately resort to violence, but their

Young (Minor Or Major)
The hero is 12­15 years old (in human years -- adjust this for other ancestries). He has only 4 points to adjust his attributes instead of 5, and 10 skill points instead of 12. He may also have legal restrictions depending on the setting (can't drive, own a firearm, and so on).
On the plus side, youths have a fair amount of luck. They draw one extra Benny at the beginning of each game session (this stacks with other Edges such Luck or Great Luck).
Most Young characters should also take the Small Hindrance, but it's not mandatory.
As a Major Hindrance, the character is Very Young (8 to 11 years old). He has only 3 points for attributes and 10 for skills, and the Small Hindrance. Very Young heroes draw two extra Bennies at the start of each session.

28

Characters

Traits

· Derive secondary statistics such as Tough ness or melee damage.

· Resist effects such as being grappled or

Characters are defined by their "Traits," attributes and skills ranked by die types. A

counter spells, powers, or social attacks such as Taunt or Intimidation.

Skills d6 is average, while higher die types reflect
much greater ability.

Attributes are primarily passive or innate abilities used for resisting effects like fear or supernatural attacks. Skills are used to actively do things or affect others.
Exceptions occur, but these are the foundational differences between the two concepts.

Heroes have 12 points to buy skills during character creation. A skill that's below the linked attribute (noted in parentheses beside the skill name) is cheaper to increase than one that's at or above it. See page 55 for Character Creation and page 54 for Advancement.
Core skills are marked with a red star, and

Attributes
Attributes don't directly affect skill rolls. Savage Worlds treats learned knowledge and training as the most relevant and direct

start at d4 for player characters (see page 10).
Characters can attempt skills they don't have but it's more difficult. See Unskilled Attempts on page 89.

factors. A high attribute allows one to increase Academics (Smarts)

a skill faster and opens up options to Edges Academics reflects knowledge of the liberal

that greatly differentiate two characters with arts, social sciences, literature, history,

the same skill.

archaeology, and similar fields. If an explorer

Every character starts with a d4 in each of wants to remember when the Mayan calendar

five attributes:

ended or cite a line from Macbeth, this is the

Agility is a measure of a character's nimble skill to have.

ness, dexterity, and general coordination.
Smarts measures raw intelligence, mental acuity, and how fast a heroine thinks on her feet. It's used to resist certain types of mental and social attacks.
Spirit is self-confidence, backbone, and willpower. It's used to resist social and supernatural attacks as well as fear.

Athletics (Agility)
Athletics combines an individual's coordin ation with learned skills such as climbing, jumping, balancing, biking, wrestling, skiing, swimming, throwing, or catching. Characters who rely on physical power more than coordination can take the Brute Edge (page 38) to link this skill to Strength instead

Strength is physical power and fitness. It's of Agility.

also used as the basis of a warrior's damage in
hand-to-hand combat, and to determine how Battle (Smarts)

much he can wear or carry.

Battle is an individual's command of strategy

Vigor represents an individual's endurance, and tactics. It can be used for general military resistance to disease, poison, or toxins, and knowledge and is critical when commanding how much physical damage she can take troops in Mass Battles (see page 131).

before she can't go on. It is most often used to resist Fatigue effects, and as the basis for the derived stat of Toughness.

Boating (Agility)
Characters with this skill can handle most any boat or ship common to their setting. They

Using Attributes

also know how to handle common tasks

Attributes are used to:

associated with their vessel such as tying

· Determine how fast skills increase during knots, rigging sails, or following currents.

Advancement (page 54).

· Limit access to Edges (page 37).

29

SAVAGE WORLDS

SKill Changes in this Edition of Savage Worlds
Here's a summary of the most important skill changes in this edition of Savage Worlds.
Core Skills
Every hero starts with a d4 in five basic abilities: Athletics, Common Knowledge, Notice, Persuasion, and Stealth. A d4 doesn't mean they're good at these skills, but they have some basic experience with them.
MAJOR CHANGES:
· Charisma was removed from the game. · Climbing has been folded into Athletics. · Common Knowledge is now its own
skill rather than a Smarts roll. · Investigation is now Research to make
its meaning and usage more clear. · Focus is a new skill for the Gifted Arcane
Background. · Knowledge has been broken down
into the separate skills used in most campaigns. Specifically: Academics, Battle, Electronics, Hacking, Langu age, Occult, and Science. · Lockpicking is now part of Thievery, which also handles pickpocketing, sleight of hand, safecracking, and other roguish tricks. · Performance is a new skill. · Repair and its use are better defined. · Streetwise is now an Edge. · Swimming is handled by Athletics. · Throwing is covered by Athletics. · Tracking is now part of Survival.
Common Knowledge (Smarts)
Characters roll Common Knowledge to know people, places, and things of their world, including etiquette, geography, culture, popular technology, contacts, and customs.
Driving (Agility)
Driving allows a hero to control any powered ground vehicle common to his setting. This includes cars, motorcycles, tanks, and the like.

(Bikes and other self-powered transports use Athletics, beast-drawn transports use Riding.)
Characters in modern settings where vehicles are ubiquitous don't need Driving for ordinary travel. Driving rolls are typically only needed in dangerous or stressful conditions, such as Chases (page 113).
Electronics (Smarts)
Electronics allows a hero to use complex or specialized devices such as the control panels on industrial machines or the sensor systems found on spaceships in futuristic settings.
Consumer or electronic devices common to the setting don't require Electronics -- Common Knowledge suffices if a roll is required at all. In the modern world, this applies to video recorders, cell phones, etc.
Fixing any type of broken electronic device uses the Repair skill (see page 34).
Faith (Spirit)
Faith is the arcane skill required for Arcane Background (Miracles), described on page 148.
Fighting (Agility)
Fighting covers all hand-to-hand (melee) attacks, whether it's with fists, axes, laser swords, or martial arts. See Chapter Three for the combat rules and the various maneuvers a warrior might attempt.
Focus (Spirit)
Focus is the arcane skill for Arcane Background (Gifted), see page 148.
Gambling (Smarts)
Gambling is common in the saloons of the Old West, the back rooms of criminal organizations, the barracks of most armies, or the flight decks of scifi spaceships.
To simulate an hour of gambling without having to roll for every single toss of the dice or hand of cards, have everyone agree on the stakes, such as $10, 10 gold coins, etc. Everyone in the game then makes a Gambling roll. The lowest total pays the highest total the difference times the stake. The next lowest pays the second highest the difference times the stake, and so on. If there's an odd man left in the middle, he breaks even.

30

Characters

Example: Red rolls highest with a 10 and Gabe rolls lowest with a 4. The difference is 6, so Gabe pays Red 6 × the stake of $10, or $60.
Cheating: A character who cheats adds +2 to his roll. The GM may raise or lower this modifier depending on the particulars of the game or the method of cheating. If a cheater rolls a Critical Failure, however, he's caught. The consequences depend on the circumstances and who noticed, but are usually unpleasant!
Hacking (Smarts)
Hacking is the skill used to create programs and "hack" into secured systems. Use of this skill always requires a computer or interface of some sort.
Most tasks are a simple Hacking roll. The amount of time it takes is determined by the GM, from a single action to hours, days, or even months depending on the complexity of the project. Success means the attempt works as desired and a raise halves the time required. Failure usually just means the hacker must try again, while a Critical Failure may mean the system locks the user out, issues an alarm, or enacts another countermeasure of some sort.
Healing (Smarts)
Healing has multiple uses, from treating Wounds to diagnosing diseases and analyzing certain kinds of forensic evidence.
See page 96 for rules on mending and treating Wounds, and page 129 for treatment of disease or poison.
Forensics: Healing can also be used to analyze evidence that relates to anatomical trauma, including cause and time of death, angle of attack, and similar matters. Success provides basic information and a raise increases the details uncovered.
Intimidation (Spirit)
Intimidation is the art of frightening an opponent so that he backs down, reveals information, or flees.
Intimidation is an opposed roll resisted by the opponent's Spirit. In combat, this is a Test (see page 108). Out of combat, a successful roll means the foe backs down for the most part, reveals some information, or slinks away when the opportunity presents itself.

A raise might mean he backs down for the remainder of the scene, spills all the beans, or runs away as fast as he can.
In or out of combat, a Critical Failure means the target is immune to this character's Intimidation attempts for the remainder of this encounter!
Networking: Intimidation can also be used as a "macro" skill to simulate several hours of working the streets. See Networking on page 133 to see how to crack some heads for favors or information.

Language (Smarts)
In some settings, such as those that focus on pulp action or "planetary romance" (where characters frequently travel among many strange civilizations), speaking various languages can simply be roleplayed with halting dialogue and campy accents that start out a little difficult and are quickly forgotten. The GM may ignore this skill altogether in these settings, or use the Multiple Languages S etting Rule on page 140.
In more realistic settings, communication can be a major barrier that requires characters to put skill points into additional languages. In a 1980s World War Three game, for example, a group of United Nations paratroopers won't be able to speak with their foes unless they take Russian, Polish, or other languages common to the Warsaw Pact.
If the Language skill is in use, it should be listed as Language (Spanish), Language (American Sign Language), etc. A character's die type also notes how fluent he is in it. (Characters start with a d8 in their own Language.)

LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY

SKILL ABILITY

d4

The character can read, write, and speak common words and phrases.

d6

The speaker can carry on a prolonged but occasionally halting conversation.

d8 The character can speak fluently.

d10

The hero can mimic other dialects within the language.

d12

The speaker can masterfully recite important literary or oral works.

31

SAVAGE WORLDS

Creating Other Skills
Game Masters can create any skill they want or need for their setting. If the skill has defined uses, she should work out exactly how it functions. If navigating the stars is a big part of your planetary romance campaign and you don't think the Electronics skill covers use of the navigational systems, for example, you might want to add Astrogation.
Players can also add their own specialty skills (with the GM's approval). These aren't likely to come up much in most settings, however, unless the player proactively looks for ways to use them.
Example: In Deadlands: Hell on Earth, the heroes must rally the town against an approaching mutant horde. Emily has a skill of her own creation, Journalism. She decides to use it to write an emotional article and print it up for everyone in the settlement to read. She gets a raise and the GM decides the entire town rallies to the defenders' side.
Skill Philosophy
New players sometimes focus on some skills being so broad--such as Fighting or Shooting --and trying to make all other skills equally so. But the primary goal of the skill system is to create and support character tropes. A shooter, whether he's a sniper or a bowman, is ubiquitous across many settings and all use a single ability -- being able to fire weapons accurately. You don't need a skill for firearms and another for bows to reinforce those character tropes.
Investigators do need many different skills, however, because they do things in completely different ways. A hard-nosed detective needs Intimidation to work the streets, socialites mingle with high society, bookworms hit the library, and computer geeks use Hacking to get what they want.
Also, some skills just don't make sense when combined. You could combine Boating, Driving, and Piloting into "Vehicles," for example, but then every modern day person who can drive a car could fly a plane. Consider that when you're altering skills for your campaigns.

Limited: Use whichever skill is lowest when performing an action that requires knowledge of a foreign language. Intimidation (if verbal), Persuasion, Research, Taunt, etc., are all limited by the character's Language skill.
This limitation never applies to a character's native tongue.
Notice (Smarts)
Notice is a hero's general awareness and alertness. It's used to sense sights, sounds, tastes, and smells, spot clues, detect ambushes, spot hidden weapons on a foe, or tell if a rival is lying, frightened, happy, etc.
Success conveys basic information -- the character hears movement in the forest, smells distant smoke, or senses someone isn't being completely truthful.
A raise grants more detail, such as the direction of a sound or odor or what topic a person is avoiding or lying about.
Occult (Smarts)
Occult reflects knowledge and experience with the paranormal most others don't even believe exists. It can be used to decipher strange pictograms, recall information about supernatural creatures, remember cures for monstrous maladies like lycanthropy or vampirism, or perform rituals.
Finding information in a library, newspaper morgue, old tome, the internet, etc., uses the Research skill. As noted there, however, if the investigator's Occult skill is higher she may use that instead. See Research on page 34.
Performance (Spirit)
A good entertainer can lift the spirits, rally a crowd to action, or simply earn a few bucks from the locals. Specifics depend on the situation, setting, and how well the character is known in the area.
Performance covers singing, acting, playing an instrument, or similar tasks that require an audience to appreciate.
Raising Funds: The amount of money a character can raise by performing is extremely subjective, but as a general rule a successful performance raises 20% of the setting's Starting Funds with a success and 30% with a raise. The GM can multiply this amount by the performer's Rank if she feels it's

32

Characters

appropriate. These numbers work for typical performers who might be known in a small establishment or area. Larger performances can greatly boost the performer's fee, but also require more time, energy, and setup.
Deception: Performance can be used instead of Persuasion if the character is attempting to deceive, bluff, or disguise herself and the GM agrees it makes sense in the context of the situation.
Persuasion (Spirit)
Persuasion is the ability to convince others to do what you want through reason, cajoling, deception, rewards, or other friendly means. Persuasion isn't mind control. It can change someone's attitude but not their goals. A bandit may let you keep a sentimental piece of jewelry with a good Persuasion roll but still takes all your other goods.
When used to Support allies (page 106) it's an unopposed roll. If the target is resistant, it's an opposed roll vs. the target's Spirit. The GM should modify the roll as she sees fit based on roleplaying, any pertinent Edges or Hindrances that affect the conversation, and the circumstances.
Reaction Level: How much a person is willing to cooperate depends largely on their attitude toward whoever's talking to them. The Game Master can decide how nonplayer characters feel based on the setting, or roll on the Reaction Table (see sidebar) if she has no preconceived notions.
Success improves the target's attitude one level and a raise improves it two. Further increases aren't generally possible in the same encounter--it takes individuals a little time to adjust their biases.
Failure means the target won't change his mind this scene or until the situation changes in some important way. A Critical Failure also reduces the target's attitude two levels.
Only one roll should generally be allowed per interaction unless new information is revealed, a substantial reward is offered, etc.
Networking: Characters can also use Persuasion as a "macro skill," simulating a few hours or an evening's time hobnobbing and socializing to gain favors or information. See Networking on page 133.

Piloting (Agility)
Piloting allows a character to maneuver airplanes, helicopters, jet packs, or spaceships. Rules for Chases and vehicular combat can be found in Chapter Four.
A being with the innate ability to fly (he has wings, for example) uses Athletics instead.
Psionics (Smarts)
This is the skill "psions" or "psis" use to activate and control their psionic abilities. See the Arcane Background (Psionics) Edge on page 148.

Reactions
The GM can use the table below to roll or choose a character or group's initial attitude.

REACTION TABLE

2D6 INITIAL REACTION

Hostile: The target is openly hostile. He may attack if possible, or other wise betray, report on, or hinder 2 the party at the first opportunity. He doesn't help without an over whelming reward or threat of some kind.

Unfriendly: The character isn't

3

interested in helping unless he has little choice and/or is offered a

substantial payment or reward.

Uncooperative: The target isn't

4­5

interested in getting involved unless there's a significant advantage to

himself.

Neutral: The character has no par-

6­8

ticular attitude toward the group. He expects fair payment for any sort

of favor or information.

9­10

Cooperative: The character is gener ally sympathetic. He helps if he can for a small fee, favor, or kindness.

Friendly: The individual goes out of his way for the hero. He likely does 11 simple tasks for very little, and is willing to do more dangerous tasks for fair pay or other favors.

Helpful: The target is anxious to 12 help the hero and probably does so
for little or no reward.

33

SAVAGE WORLDS

Repair (Smarts)
Repair is the ability to take apart and/or fix mechanical gadgets, vehicles, weapons, and simple electrical devices. It also covers the use of demolitions and explosives.
How long a Repair roll takes is up to the GM and the complexity of the task. Fixing a Wound on a compact car in a post-apocalyptic setting might take an hour. Fixing a Wound on the same car in the present day might take four hours if the character wants it painted, polished, etc. Success means the item is functional. A raise on the Repair roll halves the time required.
Tools: Characters suffer a minor penalty (-1 to -2) to their roll if they don't have access to basic tools, or a major penalty (-3 to -4) if the device requires specialized equipment.
Electronics: Repair can be used to repair electronic devices, but is limited by the hero's Electronics skill. Use whichever skill is lowest.

The amount of time this takes is up to the GM and the situation. Finding something on the internet or a specific passage in a book might be possible in a combat round. Looking through books in a library, searching the internet for a complex topic, or digging up background information on an individual usually takes about an hour.
Success finds basic information and a raise provides more detail. Failure means the researcher doesn't find what she's looking for.
A Critical Failure might mean the researcher finds plausible but incorrect information, triggers the notice of some opposed entity or faction, reads something "Humanity Was Not Meant to Know" and suffers a mental illness of some sort (a Minor Phobia, Quirk, etc.), or she might even accidentally destroy the source. The GM is encouraged to be creative when such a mishap occurs, perhaps forcing the party to approach the situation in a different way.

Research (Smarts)
A character skilled in Research knows how to make good use of libraries, newspaper morgues, the internet, or other written sources of information.

Related Skills: If a character has a skill that relates directly to the subject he's researching, he can use that instead of Research. An explorer with Occult d10 and Research d6, for example, rolls a d10 when investigating vampire lore at a forgotten library. If he later goes to search for the deed to a house where the vampires are rumored to lair, he rolls his normal Research instead.

Comprehensive Modifiers
Previous editions of Savage Worlds listed a host of modifiers for things like Stealth and Tracking (now part of Survival). We've foregone those tables in this edition for a more subjective stance that allows the GM to look at the entire situation --something we can't sum up in a table --and assign a bonus or penalty on her own, usually from +4 to -4.
This allows her to consider all the factors more generally, especially those that overlap (like dual penalties for rain or darkness that both limit visibility and therefore shouldn't stack) and sum them up quickly and easily without having to consult a table in the middle of a tense scene.

Note: Research may only provide the clues, especially in a mystery-heavy game. Putting the clues together from the information gathered is up to the players.
Riding (Agility)
Riding allows a hero to mount, control, and ride any beast or beast-drawn vehicle common to his setting. This includes horses, camels, dragons, wagons, chariots, and the like. See the rules for Mounted Combat on page 103.
Science (Smarts)
Those with this skill have studied various hard sciences such as biology, xenobiology, chemistry, geology, engineering, or any other "hard" science.
A successful Science roll reveals basic information about a topic, and a raise grants more details.

34

Characters

Shooting (Agility)
Shooting covers all attempts to hit a target with a ranged weapon such as a bow, pistol, or rocket launcher (thrown weapons use Athletics, page 29). See Chapter Three for details on ranged combat.
Spellcasting (Smarts)
Mages, wizards, warlocks, and witches use Spellcasting to cast spells. See the Arcane Background (Magic) Edge on page 148.
Stealth (Agility)
Stealth is the ability to hide and move quietly. A simple success on a Stealth roll means the character avoids detection if enemies aren't particularly alert. If the character fails the roll, the enemy realizes something is amiss and begins actively searching for whatever roused them.
Once foes are alerted and active, Stealth is opposed by Notice (a group roll if there are many foes, see page 89).
The GM should apply any circumstantial penalties to Notice rolls for darkness, cover, noise, distractions, and any difference in the target's Scale (just like when attacking, see Scale on page 106). Sneaking through dry leaves might subtract 2 from the Stealth roll, for example, while spotting someone in the dark uses the Illumination penalty listed on page 102 (-4). Don't apply the same modifier to both rolls, however. If Stealth is at -2 for the leaves, don't give Notice a +2 for them as well.
Sneak Attack: Sneaking up close enough to make a melee attack always requires an opposed Stealth roll versus the target's Notice, whether the guard is actively looking for trouble or not. If successful, the victim is Vulnerable (page 100) to the attacker, but only until the attacker's turn ends. With a raise, the attacker has The Drop (page 100) instead.
Movement: In combat, characters roll Stealth each turn as a free action at the end of their move or any action the GM thinks might draw attention.
Out of combat, the distance moved depends entirely on the situation. The GM might want a roll every minute if the group is sneaking around the perimeter of a defensive position, or every few miles if they're trying to quietly

walk the path through a dark forest without alerting the creatures that live there.
Survival (Smarts)
Survival allows a character to find food, water, or shelter in hostile environments. It can also be used to navigate wilderness environments, figure out which plants are good to eat and which aren't, and so on.
A successful Survival roll provides enough food and water for one person for one day; or five people with a raise.
More detailed information on Hunger and Thirst can be found under Hazards on page 125.
Tracking: Survival can also be used to detect and follow tracks. Each roll generally covers following the tracks for one mile, but the GM should adjust this as needed for specific circumstances.
The Game Master should assign a bonus or penalty based on the target, environment, and time. Tracking a large group that recently passed through a snow-covered area might grant a bonus of +4, while following a single person over rocks and streams after more than a day incurs a -4 penalty.
Taunt (Smarts)
Taunt attacks a person's pride through ridicule, cruel jests, or oneupmanship.
Taunt is an opposed roll resisted by the opponent's Smarts. In combat, this is a Test (see page 108).
Out of combat, success means the defender backs down, slinks away, or starts a fight. A raise might leave the victim cowed for the remainder of the scene, or make her storm out of the area fuming or even in tears, or attack her tormentor recklessly (perhaps with a Wild Attack on the first round of combat).
A Critical Failure means the target is immune to this character's Taunts for the remainder of the encounter.
Thievery (Agility)
Lockpicking, safecracking, picking pockets, sleight of hand, setting and disabling traps and similar acts of misdirection, sabotage, subterfuge, and manipulation are called Thievery.

35

SAVAGE WORLDS

Familiarization
If it's dramatically appropriate to show that a character is out of his element with the particular use of a skill--such as picking up an alien weapon and trying to make a Shooting attack with it -- the GM should simply apply a penalty (usually -2 to -4) to the total.
When to do this, and how large the penalty is, depends entirely on the situation. A gunslinger might suffer a penalty when using a bow, for example, at least until he's had a day or two to practice. A professor might suffer a -4 to a Science roll if the player specifically says he's a world famous chemist when the check the GM has called for concerns Paleozoic geology. (Though that's a great time to award a Benny if the player roleplays his lack of knowledge!)
How long a penalty lasts under repeated use depends on the skill in question. Physical penalties likely fade after a day or so of practice. Penalties for knowledge-based skills are removed if the character spends time researching the subject matter and has access to suitable materials. A French literature major who has time to study up on her Shakespeare, for example, shouldn't suffer a penalty to her Academics.
In summary, use familiarization penalties for dramatic use or to illustrate differences in cultures or technology levels. Even then, keep the story moving and don't get bogged down in the minutiae.

If used to pick a lock, crack a safe, disable a Weird Science (Smarts)

trap, or perform a simple unopposed action, "Mad" scientists, inventors in worlds with

success opens or disables the device, and a magic (or technology far beyond our

raise does it in less time, without tripping own), alchemists, or artificers can be found

alarms, or whatever else the GM feels is throughout many Savage Worlds.

appropriate.

Though their techniques may vary, all

Sleight of hand, hiding or planting an item, use Weird Science as their arcane skill. See

or picking a pocket require a simple success. the Arcane Background (Weird Science)

If foes are actively watching the character, Edge on page 148 to learn more of their

Thievery is opposed by Notice.

wondrous ways.

The Game Master should assign penalties

for particularly difficult circumstances.

Picking a heavy padlock might have a -4

penalty, while hiding a revolver in bulky

winter clothing might grant a +1 bonus.

Failure typically means the character is

spotted or it takes too much time (after which

the character can try again). A Critical Failure

typically sets off the trap, alerts the victim, or

jams the device so that it must be opened or

interacted with in a different way.

Limited: Using Thievery on an electronic device, such as a keypad, is limited by the thief's Electronics skill. Use the lowest of the two skills.

36

Characters

Edges
Below is a list of Edges common to most settings. You'll find new Edges designed for your game world in official Savage Worlds books as well.
The Edges are grouped by type to help during character creation. You'll find a summary on page 59.
Unless an Edge specifically says otherwise, it may only be selected once.
REQUIREMENTS: Below each Edge is the minimum Rank (see page 54) required to take it along with any other prerequisites such as attributes, skills, or other Edges.
Background Edges
These Edges are typically advantages a character is born with, learns from prolonged and extensive training, or gains after exposure to certain events.
Players can choose these Edges after character creation with a little rationalization. An individual might choose the Attractive Edge, for example, by cleaning herself up, getting a makeover, and generally paying more attention to her looks. Characters might be able to gain the Arcane Background Edge by finding a book of forbidden knowledge or training with another arcane type in their party during downtime between adventures.
Alertness
REQUIREMENTS: Novice Not much gets by this hero. He's very observant and perceptive, and adds +2 to his Notice rolls to hear, see, or otherwise sense the world around him.

Ambidextrous
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+
Your warrior is as deft with his left hand as he is with his right. He ignores the Off-Hand penalty (see page 104).
If holding a weapon in each hand, Ambi dextrous characters may stack Parry bonuses (if any) from both weapons.
Arcane Background
REQUIREMENTS: Novice
Exposure to strange energies, studies at a magical school, or gifts from divine or spiritual entities sometimes grant champions their own powers and abilities. Such events lead to the Arcane Background Edge and the development of supernatural abilities. See Chapter Five for a complete description of Arcane Backgrounds, powers, and how to use them.
Arcane Resistance
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d8+
Magic and the supernatural hold little sway with this individual. Whether by nature, heritage, or training he's
particularly resistant to magic, psionics, weird science, and other supernatural energies.
Enemy arcane abilities targeting the hero suffer a -2 penalty and
magical damage is reduced by 2 as well. If a hostile power fails
to affect the hero due to this penalty, it still activates and consumes Power Points (and may still affect other targets). This includes magical bonuses granted to
weapons, such as the smite power or the damage bonus of magical weapons.
Improved Arcane Resistance
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Arcane Resistance
As above, but the penalty to the arcane skill roll and damage are increased to 4.

37

SAVAGE WORLDS

Aristocrat
REQUIREMENTS: Novice This individual was born into privilege or came into it later in life. She may or may not have money (the Rich or Filthy Rich Edge), but she still walks in the elite social circles of the setting.
Aristocrats add +2 to Persuasion when Networking (see page 133) with the local elite, captains of industry, nobles, or other aristocrats. They also add +2 to Common Knowledge rolls made to know the etiquette of the upper class, recognize family trees or heraldry, or recall gossip concerning others of their station.
Attractive
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Vigor d6+ It's no secret people are more willing to help those they find physically attractive. Your character adds +1 to Performance and Persuasion rolls if the target is attracted to his general type (gender, sex, species, etc.).
Very Attractive
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Attractive Your hero is drop-dead gorgeous. He increases his Performance and Persuasion bonus to +2.
Berserk
REQUIREMENTS: Novice Berserkers become wild and nearly uncon trollable when the "red rage" takes them, but they are deadly killing machines as well!
Immediately after suffering a Wound or a Shaken result (from physical damage only), your hero must make a Smarts roll or go Berserk. She can voluntarily fail this check if she likes.
Going Berserk has the following effects:
 FURY: The character's Strength increases a die type and every melee attack must be a Wild Attack (see page 109). She cannot use any skills that require wit or concentration (GM's call). She may scream out threats and use Intimidation, for example.
 ENRAGED: Adrenaline and rage fuel the berserker's muscles, adding +2 to Toughness. She ignores one level of Wound

penalties (this stacks with any other abilities that reduce Wound penalties).
 RECKLESS ABANDON: Anytime a berserker rolls a Critical Failure on a Fighting check, she hits a random target within range of her attack (not the intended target), friend or foe. If there are no applicable targets, the blow simply misses, smashes nearby objects, etc.
After five consecutive rounds of berserk fury, the hero takes a level of Fatigue. At ten rounds, she takes another level of Fatigue and the rage ends. She may also choose to end her rage at any time by making a Smarts -2 roll (as a free action; possibly avoiding Fatigue if she manages to end her rage before it's incurred!). Start the count anew if she goes berserk again, even in the same battle.
Brave
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d6+
Those with this Edge have learned to master their fear, or have dealt with so many horrors they've become jaded. These valiant explorers add +2 to Fear checks and subtract 2 from Fear Table results (see page 124).
Brawny
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Strength d6+, Vigor d6+
Your bruiser is very large or very fit. Her Size increases by +1 (and therefore Toughness by 1) and she treats her Strength as one die type higher when determining Encumbrance (page 67) and Minimum Strength to use armor, weapons, and equipment without a penalty (page 66).
Brawny can't increase a character's Size above +3.
Brute
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Strength d6+, Vigor d6+
Brutes focus on core strength and fitness over coordination and flexibility. They treat Athletics as linked to Strength instead of Agility for purposes of Advancement. The character may also resist Athletics Tests with Strength if she chooses.
Finally, Brutes increase the Short Range of any thrown item by +1. Double that for the adjusted Medium Range, and double again

38

Characters

for Long Range. If a thrown item's Range is 3/6/12, for example, a Brute's Range is 4/8/16.
Charismatic
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d8+ Your hero is likable for some reason. She may be trustworthy or kind, or might just exude confidence and goodwill. You get one free reroll on Persuasion rolls.
Elan
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d8+ Elan means energy or spirit. Those who have it rise to the occasion when the going gets toughest. When you spend a Benny to reroll a Trait, add +2 to the total. The bonus applies only when rerolling. It doesn't apply to damage rolls (since they're not Trait rolls), nor does it apply to Soak rolls unless you're using another Benny to reroll the Vigor check.
Fame
REQUIREMENTS: Novice Your character is a minor celebrity of some sort. She might be a popular bard known in a particular fiefdom, a minor rock star, or a beloved B-movie actor.
She makes double the normal fee when performing for pay (see Performance, page 32). She can also use her celebrity to add +1 to Persuasion rolls if a target is friendly and knows who she is (a Common Knowledge roll modified by how likely the individual is to know the celebrity).

The downside of Fame is that the individual is often recognized, others frequently want something from her, she may be followed by fans or admirers, or she may not be able to shirk obligations, performances, or other duties without causing trouble for herself.
Famous
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Fame Your hero is truly famous. She's wellknown in a large circle such as a country, a large industry, or a popular medium (film or television, the music industry). She makes 5× the normal fee when performing and adds +2 to Persuasion rolls when influencing friendly individuals who know who she is.
The price is higher for the truly Famous, too, with more demands on her time, obligations, rivals, scandals, and an inability to operate in crowds without being recognized.
Fast Healer
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Vigor d8+ Those with this blessing add +2 to Vigor rolls for natural healing, and check every three days instead of five (see Healing, page 96).
Fleet-Footed
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d6+ The hero's Pace is increased by +2 and his running die increases one step (from d6 to d8, for example).

39

SAVAGE WORLDS

Linguist
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Smarts d6+ This world-traveler has an ear for languages. She begins play knowing half her Smarts die type in different Language skills of her choice at d6 (see the Language skill on page 31).
Luck
REQUIREMENTS: Novice The adventurer seems to be blessed by fate, karma, the gods, or whatever external forces he believes in (or believe in him!).
He draws one extra Benny at the beginning of each game session, allowing him to succeed at important tasks more often than most, and survive incredible dangers.
Great Luck
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Luck The player draws two extra Bennies instead of one at the start of each session.
Quick
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+ Quick characters have lightning-fast reflexes and a cool head. Whenever you are dealt an Action Card of Five or lower, you may discard it and draw again until you get a card higher than Five, then choose which card to keep.
Characters with both the Level Headed and Quick Edges first draw their additional card and choose which to take. If that card is a Five or less, the Quick Edge may be used to draw a replacement until it's Six or higher, then choose which of those to keep.

hero receives the modern-day equivalent of a $150,000 annual salary.
Filthy Rich
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Rich This fortunate individual is very wealthy. He has five times the starting funds for the setting during character creation and, if appropriate, a yearly income after responsibilities of around $500,000.
Even wealthier chara cters may exist, but unless there's a game effect it probably shouldn't matter. This should be worked out with the GM and come with many more assets as well as onerous responsibilities.
Combat Edges
These Edges are designed to help your hero dish out terrible damage--or survive it --in the bloody battles of Savage Worlds.
Block
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Fighting d8+ Through hard-fought experience your hero
has learned to defend himself in vicious hand-to-hand combat. His Parry increases by +1 and any Gang Up bonus against him is reduced by one.
Improved Block
REQUIREMENTS: Veteran, Block The hero's Parry bonus is now +2 and the Gang Up bonus against him is reduced by 2.

Rich
REQUIREMENTS: Novice
Whether the individual was born with a silver spoon in his mouth or earned it through hard work, he's got more money than most.
Rich heroes start with three times the normal starting funds for the setting. If a regular income is appropriate for this setting, the

40

Characters

Brawler
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Strength d8+, Vigor d8+
His fists hit like hammers or his talons cut like scythes. His body feels like it's made of stone. Brawlers increase their Toughness by 1 and roll Strength +d4 when hitting with their fists or feet (or claws if they have them). If they already have a damage die from Claws (page 18), the Martial Artist Edge, etc., increase the damage die type by one instead.
The Brawler Edge doesn't make the char acter's fists Natural Weapons (page 104).
Bruiser
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Brawler The fighter increases his Toughness an additional +1, and the damage caused with his fists or claws another die type.
Calculating
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Smarts d8+ A few seconds to study your foe's actions gives your hero a major advantage. When his Action Card is a Five or less, he ignores up to 2 points of penalties on one action that turn, which can include Multi-Action, cover, Range, and even Wound penalties.
Combat Reflexes
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned Your warrior recovers quickly from shock and trauma. He adds +2 to his rolls when attempting to recover from being Shaken or Stunned.
Counterattack
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Fighting d8+ Fighters with this Edge deal instant punishment for an enemy's mistakes. Once per round (if not Shaken or Stunned), the character receives a Free Attack (page 101) against one failed Fighting attack against him. The counterattack takes place immediately (before other hits against the hero on the same Action Card, if any).
Improved Counterattack
REQUIREMENTS: Veteran, Counterattack As above but the hero gets a Free Attack against up to three failed attacks each round.

Dead Shot
REQUIREMENTS: Wild Card, Novice, Athletics or Shooting d8+
When your Action Card is a Joker, double the total damage of your first successful Athletics (throwing) or Shooting roll this round.
Dodge
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Agility d8+ The hero can anticipate attacks or move erratically under fire. Unless the victim of a surprise attack and taken completely unaware, Dodge subtracts 2 from all ranged attacks made against the character. Dodge does not stack with actual cover, however.
Improved Dodge
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Dodge The hero adds +2 when Evading area effect attacks. See Evasion on page 100.
Double Tap
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Shooting d6+ Experienced firearms experts fire two shots in rapid succession without spoiling their aim.
Double Tap can only be used with weapons that have a Rate of Fire of 1 and can fire two shots without needing to manually reload. It adds +1 to hit and damage at the cost of one extra bullet. This is per action, so a shooter can Double Tap more than once if she performs a Multi-Action.
Double Tap cannot be combined with Rapid Fire.
If used with a weapon capable of ThreeRound Burst (see page 67), it adds +2 to Shooting and damage instead of +1 and expends six bullets.
Extraction
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+ When a character withdraws from melee, adjacent attackers get a free Fighting attack against him (see Withdrawing from Melee on page 109). This is a very dangerous proposition for most, but not your wily champion.
When moving away from adjacent foes, one of them (player's choice), doesn't get his free Fighting attack.

41

SAVAGE WORLDS

Improved Extraction
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Extraction Up to three foes' (player's choice) don't get attacks when your warrior moves out of melee with them.
Feint
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Fighting d8+ When performing a Test (page 108) with the Fighting skill, you can choose to make the foe resist with Smarts instead of Agility.
First Strike
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+ Once per round, as long as he's not Shaken or Stunned, the hero gets a free Fighting attack against a foe immediately after he moves into Reach. (See Free Attacks on page 101).

Example: Red is desperately battling a giant crab-like creature on an alien planet. She has Improved Frenzy and decides to attack three times (a Multi-Action at the usual penalty). She rolls her Fighting skill with two extra dice for her first attack. She doesn't get the extra dice on her second or third Fighting rolls.
Giant Killer
REQUIREMENTS: Veteran The bigger they are, the harder they are to kill. At least for most. Your hero knows how to find the weak points in the most massive of foes.
He adds +1d6 damage when attacking creatures who are three or more Sizes larger than himself (see Size, page 178). A human (Size 0) gets the bonus against a creature of Size 3 or greater.

Improved First Strike
REQUIREMENTS: Heroic, First Strike As above but the hero may attack up to three foes each turn.
Free Runner
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+, Athletics d6+
Your character practices "parkour" or is just very skilled at running, jumping, swinging, scampering up walls, and over obstacles.
As long as there are obstacles she can bound on, bounce off, or swing on, she moves at her full Pace on Difficult Ground when on foot. She also adds +2 to her Athletics rolls when climbing and in foot Chases (see Chases & Vehicles page 113).
Frenzy
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Fighting d8+ As a limited action, a character with Frenzy may roll a second Fighting die with any one of his Fighting attacks for the turn. The extra die may be allocated to the same or different targets as he sees fit. Resolve each separately.
Improved Frenzy
REQUIREMENTS: Veteran, Frenzy As Frenzy but the fighter adds a third Fighting die to his Fighting attack made with Frenzy this turn.

Hard To Kill
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d8+ This adventurer has more lives than a herd of cats. He may ignore his Wound penalties when making Vigor rolls to avoid Bleeding Out (see page 95).
Harder to Kill
REQUIREMENTS: Veteran, Hard to Kill Your hero is tougher to kill than Rasputin. If he is ever "killed," roll a die. On an odd result, he's dead as usual. On an even roll, he's Incapacitated but somehow escapes death. He may be captured, stripped of all his belongings, or mistakenly left for dead, but he somehow survives.
Improvisational Fighter
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Smarts d6+ Heroes often find themselves fighting with pieces of equipment or furnishings not designed for combat. A brawler with this Edge has a knack for using such improvised weapons. He ignores the usual -2 penalty when wielding them. See page 102 for details on Improvised Weapons.
Iron Jaw
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Vigor d8+ The hero can shrug off even extreme blows. He adds +2 to Soak rolls and Vigor rolls to avoid Knockout Blows (see page 100).

42

Characters

Killer Instinct

Mighty Blow

REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned This hero hates losing. He gets a free reroll in any opposed Test he initiates.
Level Headed
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Smarts d8+ Fighters who can keep their cool when every one else is running for cover make deadly combatants. A hero with this Edge draws an additional Action Card in combat and chooses which to use.

REQUIREMENTS: Wild Card, Novice, Fighting d8+
If your Action Card is a Joker, double the damage of your first successful Fighting attack this round.
Nerves of Steel
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Vigor d8+ Your hero has learned to fight on through the most intense pain. He may ignore 1 point of Wound penalties.

Improved Level Headed
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Level Headed As above but the hero draws two additional cards and chooses which to keep.

Improved Nerves of Steel
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Nerves of Steel The hero ignores two points of Wound penalties.

Marksman
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Athletics d8+ or Shooting d8+
The hero is a natural with ranged weapons. If she doesn't move in a turn and fires no more than a Rate of Fire of 1 as her first action, she may add +1 to an Athletics (throwing) or Shooting roll, or ignore up to 2 points of penalties from Called Shots, Cover, Range, Scale, or Speed. This is a lesser version of the Aim maneuver and does not stack with it. Marksman doesn't apply to additional attacks after the first.
Martial Artist
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Fighting d6+ The fighter has trained in basic martial arts. Her fists and feet are weapons (see Natural Weapons, page 104) so she's always consid ered armed. She adds +1 when striking with them and causes Strength+d4 damage. If she already has a Strength damage die from the Claws ancestral ability (page 18) or the Brawler Edge, increase the damage a die type.
Martial Artist does not add to damage from other Natural Weapons such as fangs or horns.
Martial Warrior
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Martial Artist Increase the warrior's Fighting bonus to +2 and her damage die an additional step.

No Mercy
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned When this killer spends a Benny to reroll damage, he adds +2 to his final total.
Rapid Fire
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Shooting d6+ The shooter is practiced at taking quick and accurate shots. As long as she's armed with a fast-firing ranged weapon of some sort (such as a revolver or semi-automatic) and has enough ammunition to do so, she may increase her weapon's Rate of Fire by 1 for any one of her Shooting attacks that turn.
Improved Rapid Fire
REQUIREMENTS: Veteran, Rapid Fire The shooter may now increase her weapon's Rate of Fire by 1 twice in the same turn (via a Multi-Action).
Example: Gabe fires a machine gun and has Improved Rapid Fire. The weapon has a Rate of Fire of 4 and Gabe decides to fire it on all three of his allowed actions (see Multi-Actions on page 103).
He rolls an extra Shooting die with his first and second attack, raising the weapon's Rate of Fire to 5 each time. He doesn't get the bonus on his third attack--the machine gun's Rate of Fire remains a 4.

43

SAVAGE WORLDS

Rock and Roll!
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Shooting d8+ Experienced shooters learn to compensate for the recoil of fully automatic weapons. If a character with this Edge doesn't move on his turn, he ignores the Recoil penalty when firing at a Rate of Fire of 2 or higher. (See Recoil, page 105.)
Steady Hands
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+ Firing from the back of a horse or moving vehicle is tricky business, but your adventurer has figured it out. She ignores the Unstable Platform penalty (see page 109).
This also helps when running, reducing the usual penalty from -2 to -1 (see Movement, page 92).
Sweep
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Strength d8+, Fighting d8+
As a limited action, Sweep allows a character to make a single Fighting attack with a twohanded weapon and apply it against all targets in his Reach (friends and foes alike). Resolve damage separately for each enemy that's hit.
A Sweep made without a two-handed weapon suffers a -2 penalty.
Improved Sweep
REQUIREMENTS: Veteran, Sweep As above but the whirlwind of death is able to avoid allies when using Sweep.
Trademark Weapon
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, skill with chosen weapon of d8+
The hero knows one unique weapon (Excalibur, Old Betsy, Sting) like the back of his hand. When using it, he adds +1 to his Athletics (throwing), Fighting, or Shooting rolls, and +1 to Parry when readied (even if it's a ranged weapon).
A fighter can take this Edge multiple times, applying it to a different weapon each time. If a Trademark Weapon is lost, he can replace it but the benefits don't kick in for a few days (however long the GM feels is dramatically appropriate).

Improved Trademark Weapon
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Trademark Weapon
As above but the bonuses when using the weapon increase to +2.
Two-Fisted
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+ If a character makes a Fighting attack with one action and another from a different hand in a later action, the second attack doesn't inflict a Multi-Action penalty. The Off-Hand penalty still applies unless he's Ambidextrous, however (page 104).
If the character has Two-Gun Kid, the second action may also be a ranged attack.
Two-Gun Kid
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+ Two-Gun Kid works just like Two-Fisted, but with ranged weapons, allowing her to fire or throw a weapon in each hand as two different actions but without triggering a Multi-Action penalty.
If the character has Two-Fisted, the second action may also be a melee attack.
Example: Red has a sword in one hand and a pistol in the other. She has both Two-Fisted and Two-Gun Kid, so she can make a Fighting attack on one action and then a second Fighting or Shooting attack with no Multi-Action penalty on a later action that turn.
Leadership Edges
Leadership Edges grant bonuses to allies, making them more effective, reliable, or durable.
Unless an Edge says otherwise, it only affects allied Extras. Wild Cards only benefit if the leader has the Natural Leader Edge.
Leadership Edges aren't cumulative with the same Edge from other leaders. Characters may benefit from different Leadership Edges by the same or different leaders, however.
Command Range: Allies must be within 5 (10 yards) to benefit from her abilities. This is called her "Command Range."

44

Characters

Command
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Smarts d6+ Command is the basic ability to give clear instructions and support to allies in the thick of battle. Extras in Command Range add +1 to their Spirit rolls when attempting to recover from being Shaken and Vigor when attempting to recover from being Stunned.
Command Presence
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Command A booming voice, effective commands, natural charisma, or simple training results in a much more effective combat element. A hero with this Edge has a Command Range of 10 (20 yards).
Fervor
REQUIREMENTS: Veteran, Spirit d8+, Command
A simple phrase uttered by a great leader can sometimes have momentous results. A commander with this ability can inspire his troops to bloody fervor by yelling a motto, slogan, or other inspirational words.
Extras in range add +1 to their Fighting damage rolls.
Hold the Line!
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Smarts d8+, Command
Hold the Line strengthens the will of any Extras under the hero's command, adding +1 to their Toughness.
Inspire
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Command Exceptional leaders inspire those around them to great feats of valor and determination. As a limited action, the hero may roll his Battle skill to Support one type of Trait roll, and apply it to all allied Extras in Command Range. A leader could Support all Shooting attacks in range, for example, or all Spirit rolls to recover from being Shaken.
Inspire requires some sort of communication with those it affects.
"One of my favor ites." --G abe

Natural Leader
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Spirit d8+, Command
This leader has proven herself time and time again, gaining the respect of all those who fight by her side.
Any Leadership Edge that says it applies only to Extras now applies to Wild Cards as well.
Tactician
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Smarts d8+, Command, Battle d6+
The commander has a natural grasp of small unit tactics and can take advantage of rapidly changing situations.
A Tactician is dealt an extra Action Card each round of combat or a chase -- kept separate from his own cards. At the start of the round, he may discard it or give it to any Extra (or group of Extras sharing an Action Card) in Command Range. The player or GM controlling the receiving character or group can decide whether to accept and replace her current Action Card, or discard it.
Master Tactician
REQUIREMENTS: Veteran, Tactician The Tactician now gets a total of two extra Action Cards to distribute each round.
Power Edges
Power Edges are the key to unlocking the true potential of those with Arcane Backgrounds (explained in Chapter Five). They can mean the difference between an apprentice with a few abilities and a master of magic, miracles, psionics, or weird science!
Artificer
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Arcane Background (Any)
Those who tangle with supernatural forces sometimes find ways to imbue powers into items. They may turn an ordinary blade into a magic sword, grant powerful potions to their friends, or even bless holy relics with divine grace.
Artificers can create Arcane Devices and give them to their allies. See page 153.

45

SAVAGE WORLDS

Channeling
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Arcane Background (Any)
When the character gets a raise on her arcane skill roll (or roll to activate or use an arcane device), she reduces its Power Point cost by 1. This can take it to 0.
Concentration
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Arcane Background (Any)
Through training and focus, the caster is extremely efficient in channeling arcane forces. The base Duration of any non-Instant power is doubled. This includes maintaining powers as well.
Extra Effort
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Arcane Background (Gifted), Focus d6+
Some Gifted can dig deep into their souls to signific antly boost their powers.
Extra Effort increases a Focus total after it's rolled by +1 for 1 Power Point, or +2 for 3 Power Points. It may not be used to improve a Critical Failure.
Gadgeteer
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Arcane Background (Weird Science), Weird Science d6+
Some mechanical gurus can build incredible devices out of most anything.
A Gadgeteer can spend up to three Power Points to "jury rig" a device from any reasonable collection of spare parts. This allows her to activate any power normally available to Weird Scientists of her Rank or lower in her particular setting, with a Power Point cost of 3 or lower.
The total cost of an individual power (plus any modifiers) cannot exceed the points spent to create it, nor can the inventor apply Limitations to the gadget. She may attempt to create multiple devices as long as she has the points to do so.

Each gadget is created and activated with a Weird Science roll at ­2. This takes one entire turn, during which she can do nothing else (she cannot take Multi-Actions that turn). In all other ways, it works as the normal activation of a power.
The inventor uses Power Points directly from her pool for the device, but once its initial Duration is finished (it cannot be maintained) it falls apart into its component pieces.
Example: Gabe is an inventor in the Weird West. He wants to use boost Trait to help Red fight a giant rattlesnake, but only has the burst and blast powers. Fortunately, he's a Gadgeteer, so Gabe can put boost Trait into an "electrical bio-inducer." The device can take up to three points worth of powers, so he adds the Hurry modifier and gives Red +2 Pace as well.
Holy/Unholy Warrior
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Arcane Background (Miracles), Faith d6+
Believers face grave dangers in service to their divine patrons. To survive such hardships, the forces
of good (or evil) grant miracles and the ability to turn their favor into supernatural protection.
The chosen may add +1 to the total of a final Soak roll for each Power Point spent, to a maximum of +4.
Mentalist
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Arcane Background
(Psionics), Psionics d6+
Constant contact with multiple minds gives these psionic agents an edge when it comes to forcing or resisting mental assaults.
Mentalists add +2 to opp osed Psionics rolls, whether they are using their powers against a foe or defending against a rival.

46

Characters

New Powers
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Arcane Background (Any)
An arcane character may learn two new powers by choosing this Edge (which may be taken multiple times). He may choose from any powers of his Rank or lower normally available to his particular Arcane Background.
A character can add a new Trapping on a power she already has instead of gaining a new one. She might add an ice Trapping to her existing fire bolt, for example, so she could switch between ice and fire Trappings freely.
Power Points
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Arcane Background (Any)
Wizards, weird scientists, and other arcane types always want more power. This Edge grants them an additional 5 Power Points.
Power Points may be selected more than once, but only once per Rank. It may be taken as often as desired at Legendary Rank, but each grants only 2 additional points.
Power Surge
REQUIREMENTS: Wild Card, Novice, Arcane Background (Any), arcane skill d8+
The character recovers 10 Power Points when his Action Card is a Joker. This may not exceed his usual limit.
Rapid Recharge
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Spirit d6+, Arcane Background (Any)
Power Points normally recharge at a rate of 5 points every hour spent resting (see Recharging, page 151). This Edge increases that rate to 10 every hour.

taking a level of Fatigue to recover up to five Power Points. She can take an additional level of Fatigue (to Exhaustion) to recover up to five more Power Points. She cannot render herself Incapa citated in this way.
Fatigue incurred by Soul Drain comes from deep within and may only be recovered naturally. The relief power and similar abilities have no effect.
Wizard
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Arcane Background (Magic), Spellcasting d6+
Magic is varied and wonderful, and wizards are exposed to countless tomes, scrolls, and incantations as they master their craft. Sometimes they use this knowledge to recall variations of their various enchantments.
A Wizard can spend 1 extra Power Point when casting a power to change its Trapping. A fireball (blast) might manifest as a lightning bolt, for example. This can often have important consequences if a foe has a particular resistance or weakness to the spell's usual Trapping.
Professional Edges
Professional Edges reflect years of practice or experience in a particular trade, activity, or craft. In some cases they may also represent special blessings from higher powers as well.
Players may purchase Professional Edges after character creation, perhaps roleplaying the achievement by practicing the affected trade during downtime or in between adventures.
Stacking: Bonuses to the same Trait from different Professional Edges do not stack. Apply only the highest.

Improved Rapid Recharge
REQUIREMENTS: Veteran, Rapid Recharge The character now regains 20 Power Points per hour spent resting.
Soul Drain
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Arcane Background (Any), arcane skill d10+
Desperate times call for desperate measures. Soul Drain allows an arcane character to channel her physical energy into power,

Ace
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+
Aces are pilots and drivers who have a special affinity with their car, boat, plane, or other vehicle. They ignore two points of penalties to any Boating, Driving, or Piloting roll, and may spend Bennies to Soak damage for any vehicle they control or command, using the appropriate Boating, Driving, or Piloting skill instead of Vigor. Each success and raise negates a Wound.

47

SAVAGE WORLDS

Acrobat
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+, Athletics d8+
The Acrobat gets one free reroll on Athletics totals that involve balance, tumbling, or grappling. It doesn't affect rolls to interrupt actions, climb, swim, or throw.
Combat Acrobat
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Acrobat The tumbler leaps quickly about so that attacks against her are made at -1 as long as she's aware of the attack, can reasonably move about, and isn't suffering any Encumbrance or Minimum Strength penalties.

Investigator
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Smarts d8+, Research d8+
Investigators spend a great deal of time researching ancient legends, working the streets, or deducing devilish mysteries. Some of these heroes are actual private investigators while others are sleuthing mages in a fantasy world or inquisitive college professors stumbling upon Things Man Was Not Meant to Know.
Investigators add +2 to Research rolls and Notice rolls made to search through desks for important papers, sift through stacks of junk mail for something of note, or spy obscured items from piles of junk or debris.

Assassin
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+, Fighting d6+, Stealth d8+
Assassins are trained killers who know how to kill even the toughest foes. They add +2 to damage rolls when their foe is Vulnerable or they have The Drop.

Jack-Of-All-Trades
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Smarts d10+
Through advanced schooling, book-learning, computer-enhanced skill programs, or just amazing intuitive perception, your hero has a talent for picking up skills on the fly. There's little he can't figure out given a little time and a dash of luck.

48

Characters

The character makes a Smarts roll as an action after observing or studying some subject. She gains a d4 in the relevant skill with success, or d6 with a raise. She may try again after an hour of study, trial and effort, or immersion if she fails or wants to try for a raise. This lasts until the character attempts to learn a different subject, whether she's successful or not.
McGyver
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Smarts d6+, Notice d8+, Repair d6+
A McGyver can improvise a device from common resources when the need arises. Given a few simple items, he can make a Repair roll to craft improvised weapons, explosives, or tools, that last until used or the end of the encounter (GM's call). This takes one entire turn, and he can't move or take any other actions while constructing the device.
Failure means the device isn't ready. A Critical Failure means he doesn't have the right materials and can't create the device this encounter.
Success creates a minor explosive (2d4 explosive in a Small Blast Template), a one shot projectile weapon like a "zip gun" (Range 5/10/20, Damage 2d6), rickety raft, electrical source, etc.
A raise creates a larger explosive (2d6 in a Medium Blast Template or 2d4 in a Large), a better ranged weapon (five shots, 2d8 damage, Range 10/20/40), a more stable raft, a more powerful battery, etc.
The quality or power of the creation is completely up to the Game Master, but creativity should be rewarded, particularly in the most dire and dramatic situations.

Scholar
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Research d8+
Learned professors, devoted students, and amateur enthusiasts spend great amounts of time and energy studying particular subjects. They become experts in these fields, and rarely fail to answer questions in their particular area of expertise.
Pick any one of the following skills: Academics, Battle, Occult, Science, or a Smarts-based "knowledge"-type skill allowed in your setting, and add +2 to the total whenever they're used.
This Edge may be taken more than once if applied to different skills.
Soldier
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Strength d6+, Vigor d6+
Professional soldiers get used to carrying heavy loads, and enduring harsh conditions. After a few days getting used to their gear (GM's call), they treat their Strength as one die type higher when determining Encumbrance (page 67) and Minimum Strength to use armor, weapons, and equipment without a penalty (page 66). (This stacks with the Brawny Edge.)
They also get a free reroll on Vigor rolls made to survive environmental hazards (see Hazards, page 125).
Thief
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Agility d8+, Stealth d6+, Thievery d6+
Thieves specialize in deceit, treachery, and acrobatics. They can be invaluable where traps must be detected, walls must be climbed, and locks must be picked.

Mr. Fix It
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Repair d8+
The mechanic adds +2 to Repair rolls. With a raise, he halves the time normally required to fix something. This means if a particular Repair job says a raise repairs it in half the time, a Mr. Fix It can finish the job in onequarter the time with a raise.

Thieves know how to use protrusions on walls and window ledges to climb the tallest of buildings, scampering through streets and back alleys like cats. They add +1 to Athletics rolls made to climb in urban areas.
Thieves also know how to use the dark areas between the streetlights of cities to conceal their movements, and add +1 to Stealth rolls when in an urban environment.

Finally, these rogues are--not surprisingly-- adept at Thievery itself, adding +1 to those rolls in all circumstances.

49

SAVAGE WORLDS

Woodsman
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d6+, Survival d8+
Woodsmen are rangers, scouts, and hunters who are more at home in the wilderness than in urban areas. They are skilled trackers and scouts, and know how to live off the land for months at a time.
Woodsmen add +2 to Survival rolls, and Stealth rolls made in the wild (not towns, ruins, or underground).

The favor depends on the nature of the contact (GM's call), but might include a loan, gear, a few allied fighters, transportation, information, or even a professional with critical skills the party doesn't have, like a hacker or scholar.
Humiliate
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Taunt d8+ Those with a cruel wit can destroy a rival's ego in a single remark or well-timed gesture. Your hero gets a free reroll on Taunt Tests.

Social Edges

Menacing

Getting people to do what you want is a critical skill in most any setting.
Bolster
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d8+ Belittling or humiliating an enemy can also boost your ally's spirits. When this character successfully Tests a foe, he may also remove the Distracted or Vulnerable state (page 100) from one of his allies.
Common Bond
REQUIREMENTS: Wild Card, Novice, Spirit d8+
Selfless heroes and determined leaders know their greatest strength often comes from their companions, and are willing to give some of their own fortune, fate, or luck to support them.
A character with this Edge may freely give her Bennies to any other character she can communicate with. The player should explain what form this takes, from a quick shout of encouragement to a welcome pat on the back.
Connections
REQUIREMENTS: Novice Your heroine is connected to people or organizations who can help her when the chips are down. It might be the mob, the Feds, a union, or even other adventurers.
Connections may be taken more than once, selecting a new faction or contact each time. Once per session, and assuming she can get in touch with them, the heroine can call on her friends for a favor.

REQUIREMENTS: Novice, any one of Bloodthirsty, Mean, Ruthless, or Ugly
Being a brutish lout isn't always a drawback if you know how to use it. Menacing allows a character to put her bad looks or worse attitude to good use. The goon adds +2 to her Intimidation rolls.
Provoke
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Taunt d6+
Clever characters can manipulate their foes, drawing enemy focus on themselves to protect their allies. Once per turn, when your hero uses Taunt for a Test and gets a raise (see Test, page 108), she may Provoke the foe.
In addition to all the usual effects of the success and raise, the enemy suffers a -2 penalty to affect any other target besides the one who provoked her. This stacks with Distracted but not further instances of Provoke.
Provoke lasts until a Joker is drawn, someone else Provokes the target, or the encounter ends. Provoke can affect multiple targets, and may be combined with Rabble Rouser (see below).
Rabble-Rouser
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Spirit d8+
This instigator knows how to rile up several enemies at once.
As a limited action, a character with this Edge can make a social Test with Intimidation or Taunt against all enemies in a Medium Blast Template. The targets must be able to see and hear the hero clearly. Each defender resists and is affected by the Test separately.

50

Reliable

Work the Room

Characters

REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d8+ People know they can depend on your hero when they need assistance. He gets a free reroll on any Support roll.
Retort
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Taunt d6+ This verbal duelist can turn the slings and arrows of social combat right back at the unwitting fools who hurled them.
If a character with Retort gets a raise when resisting an Intimidation or Taunt Test, the foe is Distracted.
Streetwise
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Smarts d6+ Streetwise characters know how to find the local black market, fence stolen goods, avoid the local law (or criminal element!), lay low when the heat's on, obtain illegal weapons, find out which "boss" is hiring muscle, or similar shady activities.
Streetwise characters add +2 to Intimidation or Persuasion rolls made to Network (see page 133) with shady or criminal elements. They also add +2 to Common Knowledge rolls pertaining to the types of disreputable activities listed above.
Strong Willed
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d8+ Self-confidence is powerful armor against those who attempt to attack this individual's will. He adds +2 to his total when resisting Tests with Smarts or Spirit.
Iron Will
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Brave, Strong Willed
The hero now adds his Strong Willed bonus to resist powers and negate their effects. Iron Will doesn't stack with Brave, nor does it apply to subse quent rolls resulting from powers such as being Shaken by a damaging power, fear, or the like.

REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d8+ Your hero's words don't just inspire those they're directed at -- they often inspire others as well. As a limited action, you can use Work the Room to roll a second skill die when Supporting with Persuasion or Performance. The additional die Supports another ally normally and can apply to any Trait chosen. It need not be the same Trait for both allies.
Work the Crowd
REQUIREMENTS: Seasoned, Work the Room
As Work the Room but the hero now adds a third skill die to his Support roll this turn and Supports an additional ally.
Weird Edges
Weird Edges are slightly supernatural in origin and so are usually only appropriate in games with those elements. Check with your GM before taking them.
Beast Bond
REQUIREMENTS: Novice Some individuals have an extrao rdinary bond with their animal companions. These characters may
spend their own Bennies for any animals under their control, including mounts, pets, familiars, and so on.
Beast Master
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d8+ Animals take to your hero quickly and easily. They won't attack him unless he attacks them first or they're enraged for some reason.
The Beast Master's "animal magnetism" is so great he's attracted a loyal animal of some sort as well. This is typically

51

SAVAGE WORLDS

an animal of Size 0 or smaller, subject to the GM's approval.
The beast is an Extra and doesn't Advance in Rank or abilities. If a pet is dismissed or killed, the hero gains a replacement in 1d4 days.
More Powerful Companions: Beast Master may be taken more than once. Choose one of the effects below each time it's chosen:
· Gain an additional pet. · Increase one of the pet's Traits one die type
(only one Trait per pet). · Increase the maximum Size pet you may
have by +1, to a maximum of 3. · Make one pet a Wild Card. (The hero must
be of Heroic Rank).

Danger Sense
REQUIREMENTS: Novice
Your hero can sense when something bad is about to happen. When rolling for Surprise (page 108), he adds +2 to his Notice roll to act in the first round. With a raise, he starts the encounter on Hold.
In other situations not covered by the Surprise rules (a sniper shot, pit trap, poisoned drink, etc.), Danger Sense gives him a Notice roll at -2 (or +2 if a Notice roll is usually allowed) to detect the hazard and take appropriate action. If this was an attack and the hero makes his Notice roll, the foe doesn't get The Drop against him.

Champion

Healer

REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d8+, Fighting d6+
Champions are holy (or unholy) men and women chosen to fight for a particular deity or religion. Most are pious souls ready and willing to lay down their lives for a greater cause, but some may have been born into the role and follow their path with some reluctance.
Champions fight the forces of darkness (or good), adding +2 damage when attacking supernaturally evil (or good if they're evil) creatures. The bonus applies to area effect damage, ranged attacks, powers, etc.

REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Spirit d8+ A hero with this Edge adds +2 to all Healing rolls, whether natural or magical in nature.
Liquid Courage
REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Vigor d8+ This gregarious individual processes alcohol far differently than most. The round after consuming a stiff drink (about eight ounces of hard liquor or equivalent), her Vigor increases one die type (increasing Toughness as well). The drinker can also ignore one level of Wound penalties (which stacks with other abilities that do the same).

The GM must decide which foes this bonus applies to, but generally it's any evil (or good!) creature born of magic or with any supernatural abilities.
Chi

Smarts, Agility, and all linked skills suffer a -1 penalty for the duration, however.
The effect lasts for one hour after it begins, at which point the boozer suffers a level of Fatigue for the next four hours.

REQUIREMENTS: Veteran, Martial Warrior Scavenger

Your hero's martial arts training goes beyond REQUIREMENTS: Novice, Luck

the norm and into the realm of the mystical. Once per encounter the hero may find,

At the start of each combat encounter, she "suddenly remember," or dig up some much-

gains a "Chi Point" that can be spent to:

needed piece of equipment, a handful of

· Reroll one of her failed attacks (even a ammunition, or some other useful device.

Critical Failure). · Make an enemy discard an attack against
her, then reroll it from scratch. · Add +d6 damage to a successful Fighting

The Game Master decides what constitutes an encounter, and has the final word on what can and can't be found.

attack made with her hands, feet, claws, or

other Natural Weapons (this may Ace).

Unspent Chi is lost at the end of the combat encounter.

52

Characters

Legendary Edges
Most Legendary Edges are very specific to their campaign world-- such as gaining a stronghold or divine favor -- but a few fit most anywhere. Here are a few that should fit most every setting or genre, from the dungeons of swords & sorcery worlds to the far-flung worlds of futuristic space operas.
Followers
REQUIREMENTS: Wild Card, Legendary Each time this Edge is chosen, five followers come to fight by the hero's side. If any are lost, others eventually take their place (how long is up to the GM and the circumstances).
Followers must be cared for and generally want a share of whatever loot, treasure, or other rewards the hero acquires. Otherwise, they are completely dedicated to their task. They won't throw their lives away but are willing to risk them repeatedly in his service.
Use the Soldier profile found on page 188 for the followers. A hero may outfit her allies as she sees fit. Followers Advance just like player characters (see page 54).
Use the Allies rules on page 111 to give them distinctive personalities if desired.
Professional
REQUIREMENTS: Legendary, maximum die type possible in affected Trait
The character is an expert at a particular skill or attribute (his choice). This increases the Trait and its limit one step (a d12 + 1 becomes a d12 + 2 , for example). This Edge may be selected once per Trait.
Expert
REQUIREMENTS: Legendary, Professional in affected Trait
As the Professional Edge, increasing the Trait and its limit one additional step.
Master
REQUIREMENTS: Wild Card, Legendary, Expert in affected Trait
The character's Wild Die increases to a d10 when rolling the selected Expert Trait.

Sidekick
REQUIREMENTS: Wild Card, Legendary A character who triumphs over evil time and time again becomes an inspiration to others. Eventually, one of these young crusaders may attempt to join the hero in his epic quests.
The hero gains a Novice Rank sidekick. The sidekick is a Wild Card, starts each session with two Bennies, may Advance, and has abilities that complement his mentor. The player character controls his sidekick just like any other ally, though he may occasionally cause trouble by getting captured, running into danger when he's not supposed to, and so on. The player should be prepared for his Edge to occasionally become a Hindrance!
If the sidekick dies, he isn't replaced unless the hero chooses this Edge again. Fortunately, heroes may always spend Bennies for their sidekicks as if she had the Common Bond Edge. Sidekicks must actually take that Edge to do the same for their mentors.
Tough As Nails
REQUIREMENTS: Legendary, Vigor d8+ Your character keeps going when others fall. She can take four Wounds before she's Incapacitated (her maximum Wound penalty is still -3).
Tougher Than Nails
REQUIREMENTS: Legendary, Tough as Nails, Vigor d12+
The hero can take up to five Wounds before she's Incapacitated! Her maximum Wound penalty is still -3.
Weapon Master
REQUIREMENTS: Legendary, Fighting d12+ The warrior increases his Parry by +1 and the bonus damage die for Fighting rolls is a d8 instead of a d6 (see Bonus Damage, page 94). He must be armed to gain these benefits, but this includes the Martial Artist Edge, claws, or other abilities that count as weapons.
Master of Arms
REQUIREMENTS: Legendary, Weapon Master
Increase the hero's Parry an additional +1 and his Fighting bonus damage die is now a d10.

53

SAVAGE WORLDS

Advancement
One of the many great aspects of roleplaying games is advancing your character, watching her grow from a Novice to a Legendary hero.
Advancement in Savage Worlds depends on the length of your intended campaign. For short campaigns of 10 sessions or fewer, we recommend characters Advance after each session. In a One Shot, you might even want to allow an Advance in the middle of the adventure, especially if there's some downtime or a narrative opportunity that makes sense.
You can slow things down for longer campaigns by granting an Advance every other session, or even every third session if you intend on playing for years. You can even decide to grant Advances after certain objectives are met -- it's completely in the hands of the Game Master.
An Advance lets a character do one of the following. Remember that no Trait may be raised above its ancestral maximum (usually d12).
· Gain a new Edge. · Increase a skill that is equal to or greater
than its linked attribute one die type. · Increase two skills that are lower than
their linked attributes by one die type each (including new skills the character didn't have before at d4). · Increase one attribute by a die type. This option may only be taken once per Rank (see Rank, below). Legendary characters may raise an attribute every other Advance, up to the ancestral maximum. · Permanently remove a Minor Hindrance, or reduce a Major Hindrance to a Minor (if possible). With the GM's permission, and if it makes sense, two Advances may be saved up and spent to remove a Major Hindrance. The player and GM should work out how and when this happens. Perhaps the shocking death of an ally triggers a change in attitude, the hero puts real effort into improving harmful behavior, or might even seek professional help during downtime between missions.

Rank
As a character gains Advances, she goes up in "Rank." This is a rough measure of how powerful she is. Each Rank allows access to more powerful Edges and certain abilities (such as powers)!

RANK

ADVANCES

RANK

0­3

Novice

4­7

Seasoned

8­11

Veteran

12­15

Heroic

16+

Legendary

Starting With Experienced Characters
If the GM wants to start a game with more experienced characters, you should still make a Novice and Advance it normally. This ensures characters are balanced just as if they had gained experience normally.
Additional goods, equipment, or other assets must be determined by the Game Master and the particular setting. As a quick rule of thumb, a character's starting funds double with each Rank after Novice.
Replacement Characters: When a character dies, we recommend the player create a new Novice hero then give him the same number of Advances his previous champion had when he fell.
Allies & Advancement
Followers and other allies who stay with the party for extended periods can improve their abilities as well.
At the end of a game session in which the allies had a significant role (usually by participating in combat, but GM's call), Advance them just as you would the player characters.

"IitnIs'tcksairnolalpdlesweamncsaeashyskeauaepanspgnaeitrteoswtotldrEioniiddbkbgeueuatdeyse.t".o --G abe

54

Character Creation Summary
Concept
· Start with a general idea of what you want to play. Your setting book likely provides many ideas.
Ancestry
· Choose your character's ancestry (see page 12) and apply any bonuses or special abilities it grants.
Hindrances
· Select up to four points of Hindrances (Major Hindrances are worth 2, Minor are worth 1). · For 2 Hindrance points you can raise an attribute one die type, or choose an Edge. · For 1 Hindrance point you can gain another skill point, or gain additional starting funds
equal to twice your setting's starting amount.
Attributes
· Attributes start at d4. You have 5 points to distribute among them. Each step costs 1 point. · Attributes may not be raised beyond d12 unless your hero's ancestry states otherwise.
Skills
· Athletics, Common Knowledge, Notice, Persuasion, and Stealth are core skills and start at d4 for free.
· You have 12 points to put into these or any other skills. · Each die type costs 1 point up to and equal to the linked attribute; then 2 points per step
after that.
Derived Statistics
· Standard Pace is 6, but may be changed by ancestral abilities, Edges, or Hindrances. · Parry is 2 plus half of Fighting. · Toughness is 2 plus half of Vigor, plus any Armor.
Note the amount of armor in parentheses like this -- Toughness: 11 (2). This means 2 points of the total 11 Toughness comes from Armor. An Armor Piercing attack could bypass those 2 points but not the other 9.
Edges
· Use any leftover Hindrance points to take Edges if you like. · Each Edge costs 2 Hindrance points.
Gear
· Purchase up to $500 worth of equipment.

SAVAGE WORLDS

Hindrance Summaries
All Thumbs (Minor): ­2 to use mechanical or electrical devices. Anemic (Minor): ­2 Vigor when resisting Fatigue. Arrogant (Major): Likes to dominate his opponent, challenge the most powerful foe in combat. Bad Eyes (Minor/Major): ­1 to all Trait rolls dependent on vision, or ­2 as a Major Hindrance. Eyewear negates penalty but have a 50% chance of breaking when the hero suffers trauma. Bad Luck (Major): The characters starts with one less Benny per session. Big Mouth (Minor): Unable to keep secrets and constantly gives away private information. Blind (Major): ­6 to all tasks that require vision (but choice of a free Edge to offset). Bloodthirsty (Major): Never takes prisoners. Can't Swim (Minor): ­2 to swimming (Athletics) rolls; Each inch moved in water costs 3" of Pace. Cautious (Minor): The character plans extensively and/or is overly careful. Clueless (Major): ­1 to Common Knowledge and Notice rolls. Clumsy (Major): ­2 to Athletics and Stealth rolls. Code of Honor (Major): The character keeps his word and acts like a gentleman. Curious (Major): The character wants to know about everything. Death Wish (Minor): The hero wants to die after or while completing some epic task. Delusional (Minor/Major): The individual believes something strange that causes him occasional or frequent trouble. Doubting Thomas (Minor): The character doesn't believe in the supernatural, often exposing him to unnecessary risks. Driven (Minor/Major): The hero's actions are driven by some important goal or belief. Elderly (Major): ­1 to Pace, running, Agility, Strength, and Vigor. Hero gets 5 extra skill points. Enemy (Minor/Major): The character has a recurring nemesis. Greedy (Minor/Major): The individual is obsessed with wealth and material possessions. Habit (Minor/Major): Addicted to something, suffers Fatigue if deprived. Hard of Hearing (Minor/Major): ­4 to Notice sounds; automatic failure if completely deaf. Heroic (Major): The character always helps those in need. Hesitant (Minor): Draw two Action Cards and take the lowest (except Jokers, which may be kept). Illiterate (Minor): The character cannot read or write. Impulsive (Major): The hero leaps before he looks. Jealous (Minor/Major): The individual covets what others have. Loyal (Minor): The hero is loyal to his friends and allies. Mean (Minor): ­1 to Persuasion rolls. Mild Mannered (Minor): ­2 to Intimidation rolls. Mute (Major): The hero cannot speak. Obese (Minor): Size +1, Pace ­1 and running die of d4. Treat Str as one die type lower for Min Str. Obligation (Minor/Major): The character has a weekly obligation of 20 (Minor) to 40 (Major) hours. One Arm (Major): ­4 to tasks (such as Athletics) that require two hands. One Eye (Major): ­2 to actions at 5 (10 yards) or more distance. Outsider (Minor/Major): The character doesn't fit in to the local environment and subtracts 2 from Persuasion rolls. As a Major Hindrance she has no legal rights or other serious consequences. Overconfident (Major): The hero believes she can do anything.
56

Characters

Pacifist (Minor/Major): Fights only in self-defense as a Minor Hindrance, won't fight at all as Major. Phobia (Minor/Major): The character is afraid of something, and subtracts ­1/­2 from all Trait rolls in its presence. Poverty (Minor): Half starting funds and the character is always broke. Quirk (Minor): The individual has some minor but persistent foible that often annoys others. Ruthless (Minor/Major): The character does what it takes to get her way. Secret (Minor/Major): The hero has a dark secret of some kind. Shamed (Minor/Major): The individual is haunted by some tragic event from her past. Slow (Minor/Major): Pace ­1, reduce running die one step. As Major, Pace ­2, ­2 to Athletics and rolls to resist Athletics. Neither may take the Fleet-Footed Edge. Small (Minor): Size and Toughness are reduced by 1. Size cannot be reduced below ­1. Stubborn (Minor): The character wants his way and rarely admits his mistakes. Suspicious (Minor/Major): The individual is paranoid. As a Major Hindrance, allies subtract 2 when rolling to Support him. Thin Skinned (Minor/Major): The character is particularly susceptible to personal attacks. As a Minor Hindrance, he subtracts two when resisting Taunt attacks. As a Major, he subtracts four. Timid (Major): ­2 to Fear checks and resisting Intimidation. Tongue-Tied (Major): The character often misspeaks or can't get her words out. ­1 to Intimidation, Persuasion, and Taunt rolls. Ugly (Minor/Major): The character is physically unattractive and subtracts 1 or 2 from Persuasion rolls. Vengeful (Minor/Major): The adventurer seeks payback for slights against her. As a Major Hindrance, she'll cause physical harm to get it. Vow (Minor/Major): The individual has pledged himself to some cause. Wanted (Minor/Major): The character is wanted by the authorities. Young (Minor/Major): Minor has 4 attribute points and 10 skill points, extra Benny per session. Major has 3 attribute points, 10 skill points, and two extra Bennies per session.
57

SAVAGE WORLDS

Trait Summaries
ATTRIBUTES Agility: Nimbleness, dexterity, and overall physical coordination of muscles and reflexes. Smarts: Raw intellect, perception, and ability to sort and make use of complex information. Spirit: Inner strength and willpower. Strength: Raw muscle power. Vigor: Endurance, health, and constitution. SKILLS Academics (Smarts): Knowledge of liberal arts, social sciences, literature, history, etc.
Athletics (Agility): Overall athletic coordination and ability. Climbing, jumping, balancing,
wrestling, skiing, swimming, throwing, or catching. Battle (Smarts): Strategy, tactics, and understanding military operations. A key skill in Mass Battles. Boating (Agility): Ability to sail or pilot a boat, ship, or other watercraft.
Common Knowledge (Smarts): General knowledge of a character's world.
Driving (Agility): The ability to control, steer, and operate ground vehicles. Electronics (Smarts): The use of electronic devices and systems. Faith (Spirit): The arcane skill for Arcane Background (Miracles). Fighting (Agility): Skill in armed and unarmed combat. Focus (Spirit): The arcane skill for Arcane Background (Gifted). Gambling (Smarts): Skill and familiarity with games of chance. Hacking (Smarts): Coding, programming, and breaking into computer systems. Healing (Smarts): The ability to treat and heal Wounds and diseases, and decipher forensic evidence. Intimidation (Spirit): A character's ability to threaten others into doing what she wants. Language (Smarts): Knowledge and fluency in a particular language.
Notice (Smarts): General awareness and perception.
Occult (Smarts): Knowledge of supernatural events, creatures, history, and ways. Performance (Spirit): Singing, dancing, acting, or other forms of public expression.
Persuasion (Spirit): The ability to convince others to do what you want.
Piloting (Agility): Skill with maneuvering vehicles that operate in three dimensions, such as airplanes, helicopters, spaceships, etc. Psionics (Smarts): The arcane skill for Arcane Background (Psionics). Repair (Smarts): The ability to fix mechanical and electrical gadgets. Research (Smarts): Finding written information from various sources. Riding (Agility): A character's skill in mounting, controlling, and riding a tamed beast. Science (Smarts): Knowledge of scientific fields such as biology, chemistry, geology, engineering, etc. Shooting (Agility): Precision with any type of ranged weapon. Spellcasting (Smarts): The arcane skill for Arcane Background (Magic).
Stealth (Agility): The ability to sneak and hide.
Survival (Smarts): How to find food, water, or shelter, and tracking. Taunt (Smarts): Insulting or belittling another. Almost always done as a Test (page 108). Thievery (Agility): Sleight of hand, pickpocketing, lockpicking, and other typically shady feats. Weird Science (Smarts): The arcane skill for Arcane Background (Weird Science).
58

Characters

Edge Summaries

BACKGROUND EDGES

EDGE

REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Alertness

N

+2 to Notice rolls.

Ambidextrous

N, A d8

Ignore ­2 penalty when making Trait rolls with off-hand.

Arcane Background

N

Allows access to the Arcane Backgrounds listed in Chapter Five.

Arcane Resistance

N, Sp d8

Enemy arcane skills targeting the hero suffer a -2 penalty; magical damage is reduced by 2.

Improved Arcane Resistance

N, Arcane Resistance

As Arcane Resistance except penalty is increased to -4 and magical damage is reduced by 4.

Aristocrat

N

+2 to Common Knowledge and networking with upper class.

Attractive

N, V d6

+1 to Performance and Persuasion rolls.

Very Attractive

N, Attractive +2 to Performance and Persuasion rolls.

Berserk

After being Shaken or Wounded, melee attacks must be Wild

Attacks, +1 die type to Strength, +2 to Toughness, ignore one

N

level of Wound penalties, Critical Failure on Fighting roll

hits random target. Take Fatigue after every five consecutive

rounds, may choose to end rage with Smarts roll ­2.

Brave

N, Sp d6

+2 to Fear checks and ­2 to rolls on the Fear Table.

Brawny

N, St d6, V d6

Size (and therefore Toughness) +1. Treat Strength as one die type higher for Encumbrance and Minimum Strength to use weapons, armor, or equipment.

Brute

N, St d6, V d6

Link Athletics to Strength instead of Agility (including resistance). Short Range of any thrown item increased by +1. Double that for the adjusted Medium Range, and double again for Long Range.

Charismatic

N, Sp d8

Free reroll when using Persuasion.

Elan

N, Sp d8

+2 when spending a Benny to reroll a Trait roll.

Fame

N

+1 Persuasion rolls when recognized (Common Knowledge), double usual fee for Performance.

Famous

S, Fame

+2 Persuasion when recognized, 5× or more usual fee for Performance.

Fast Healer

N, V d8

+2 Vigor when rolling for natural healing; check every 3 days.

Fleet-Footed

N, A d6

Pace +2, increase running die one step.

Linguist

N, Sm d6 Character has d6 in languages equal to half her Smarts die.

Luck

N

+1 Benny at the start of each session.

Great Luck

N, Luck

+2 Bennies at the start of each session.

Quick

N, A d8

The hero may discard and redraw Action Cards of 5 or lower.

Rich

N

Character starts with three times the starting funds and a $150K annual salary.

Filthy Rich

N, Rich

Five times starting funds and $500K average salary.

59

SAVAGE WORLDS

COMBAT EDGES

EDGE

REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Block

S, Fighting d8 +1 Parry, ignore 1 point of Gang Up bonus.

Improved Block

V, Block

+2 Parry, ignore 2 points of Gang Up bonus.

Brawler

N, St d8, V d8

Toughness +1, add d4 to damage from fists; or increase it a die type if combined with Martial Artist, Claws, or similar abilities.

Bruiser

S, Brawler

Increase unarmed Strength damage a die type and Toughness another +1.

Calculating

N, Sm d8

Ignore up to 2 points of penalties on one action with an Action Card of Five or less.

Combat Reflexes

S

+2 Spirit to recover from being Shaken or Stunned.

Counterattack

S, Fighting d8 Free attack against one foe per turn who failed a Fighting roll.

Improved Counterattack

V, Counterattack As Counterattack, but against three failed attacks per turn.

Dead Shot

WC, N, Athletics On first successful Athletics (throwing) or Shooting roll, or Shooting d8 double damage when dealt a Joker.

Dodge

S, A d8

-2 to be hit by ranged attacks.

Improved Dodge S, Dodge +2 to Evasion totals.

Double Tap

S, Shooting d6

+1 to hit and damage when firing no more than RoF 1 per action.

Extraction

N, A d8

One adjacent foe doesn't get a free attack when you withdraw from close combat.

Improved Extraction

S, Extraction

Three adjacent foes don't get free attacks when you withdraw from combat.

Feint

N, Fighting d8

You may choose to make foe resist with Smarts instead of Agility during a Fighting Test.

First Strike

N, A d8

Free Fighting attack once per round when foe moves within Reach.

Improved First Strike

H, First Strike

Free Fighting attack against up to three foes when they move within Reach.

Free Runner

N, A d8

Ignore Difficult Ground and add +2 to Athletics in foot chases and Athletics (climbing).

Frenzy

S, Fighting d8 Roll a second Fighting die in one melee attack. Limited action.

Improved Frenzy

V, Frenzy Roll a third Fighting die in one melee attack. Limited action.

Giant Killer

V

+1d6 damage vs. creatures three Sizes larger or more.

Hard to Kill

N, Sp d8

Ignore Wound penalties when making Vigor rolls to avoid Bleeding Out.

Harder to Kill

V, Hard to Kill

Roll a die if the character perishes. On an even roll he's Incapacitated but survives somehow.

Improvisational Fighter

S, Sm d6

Ignore ­2 penalty when attacking with improvised weapons.

Iron Jaw

N, V d8

+2 to Soak and Vigor rolls to avoid Knockout Blows.

Killer Instinct

S

The hero gets a free reroll in any opposed Test he initiates.

Level Headed

S, Sm d8

Draw an additional Action Card each round in combat and choose which one to use.

Improved Level Headed

S, Level Headed

Draw two additional Action Cards each round in combat and choose which one to use.

60

Characters

Marksman

S, Athletics or Shooting d8

Ignore up to 2 points of penalties from Range, Cover, Called Shot, Scale, or Speed; or add +1 to first Athletics (throwing) or Shooting roll. Character may not move or fire greater than RoF 1.

Martial Artist

Unarmed Fighting +1, fists and feet count as Natural N, Fighting d6 Weapons, add d4 damage die to unarmed Fighting attacks
(or increase die a step if you already have it).

Martial Warrior S, Martial Artist Unarmed Fighting +2, increase damage die type a step.

Mighty Blow

WC, N,

On first successful Fighting roll, double damage when dealt

Fighting d8 a Joker.

Nerves of Steel

N, V d8

Ignore one level of Wound penalties.

Improved Nerves of Steel

N, Nerves of Steel

Ignore up to two levels of Wound penalties.

No Mercy

S

+2 damage when spending a Benny to reroll damage.

Rapid Fire

S, Shooting d6 Increase RoF by 1 for one Shooting attack per turn.

Improved Rapid Fire

V, Rapid Fire Increase RoF by 1 for up to two Shooting attacks per turn.

Rock and Roll!

S, Shooting d8

Ignore the Recoil penalty when firing weapons with a RoF of 2 or more. Character may not move.

Steady Hands

N, A d8

Ignore Unstable Platform penalty; reduce running penalty to ­1.

Sweep

N, St d8,

Fighting roll with two-handed weapon (­2 without) to hit all

Fighting d8 targets in weapon's Reach. Limited action.

Improved Sweep V, Sweep As above, but attack can avoid allies. Limited action.

Trademark Weapon

N, d8 in

+1 to Athletics (throwing), Fighting, or Shooting total with a

related skill specific weapon; +1 Parry while weapon is readied.

Imp. Trademark Weapon

S, Trademark Weapon

The attack and Parry bonus increases to +2.

Two-Fisted

N, A d8

Make one extra Fighting roll with a second melee weapon in the off-hand at no Multi-Action penalty.

Two-Gun Kid

N, A d8

Make one extra Shooting (or Athletics (throwing) roll with a second ranged weapon in the off-hand at no Multi-Action penalty.

LEADERSHIP EDGES
(COMMAND RANGE IS 5" OR 10 YARDS)

EDGE

REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Command

N, Sm d6 +1 to Extras' Shaken or Stunned recovery rolls.

Command Presence

S, Command Increase Command Range to 10 (20 yards)

Fervor

V, Sp d8, Command

Extras in range add +1 to their Fighting damage rolls.

Hold the Line

S, Sm d8, Command

+1 to Extras' Toughness in Command Range.

Inspire

S, Command

Make a Battle skill roll to Support one type of Trait roll, and apply it to Extras in Command Range. Limited action.

Natural Leader

S, Sp d8, Command

Leadership Edges now apply to Wild Cards.

Tactician

S, Sm d8, Command,
Battle d6

Draw an extra Action Card each turn that may be assigned to any allied Extra (or group of Extras sharing an Action Card) in Command Range.

Master Tactician V, Tactician Draw and distribute two extra Action Cards instead of one.

61

POWER EDGES
("AB" IS ARCANE BACKGROUND)

EDGE

REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

SAVAGE WORLDS

Artificer

S, AB

Allows user to create Arcane Devices.

Channeling

S, AB

Reduce Power Point cost by 1 with a raise on the activation roll.

Concentration

S, AB

Double Duration of non-Instant powers.

Extra Effort

S, AB (Gifted), Increase Focus by +1 for 1 Power Point or +2 for 3 Power Focus d6 Points.

Gadgeteer

S, AB (Weird Science),Weird
Science d6

Spend 3 Power Points to create a device that replicates another power.

Holy/Unholy Warrior

S, AB (Miracles), Faith d6

Add +1 to +4 to Soak rolls for each Power Point spent.

Mentalist

S, AB (Psionics), Psionics d6

+2 to opposed Psionics rolls.

New Powers

N, AB

Your character knows two new powers.

Power Points

N, AB

Gain 5 additional Power Points, no more than once per Rank.

Power Surge

WC, N, AB, arcane skill d8

Recover 10 Power Points when dealt a Joker in combat.

Rapid Recharge

S, Sp d6, AB Recover 10 Power Points per hour.

Improved Rapid Recharge

V, Rapid Recharge

Recover 20 Power Points per hour.

Soul Drain

S, AB, arcane skill d10

Recover 5 Power Points for a level of Fatigue.

Wizard

S, AB (Magic), Spellcasting d6

Spend 1 extra Power Point to change a spell's Trapping.

PROFESSIONAL EDGES

EDGE

REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Ace

N, A d8

Character may spend Bennies to Soak damage for his vehicle and ignores up to 2 points of penalties.

Acrobat

N, A d8, Athletics d8

Free reroll on acrobatic Athletics attempts.

Combat Acrobat S, Acrobat -1 to hit with ranged and melee attacks.

Assassin

N, A d8, Fighting d6, Stealth d8

+2 to damage foes when Vulnerable or assassin has The Drop.

Investigator

N, Sm d8, Research d8

+2 to Research and certain types of Notice rolls.

Jack-of-all-Trades

N, Sm d10 Gain d4 in a skill (or d6 with a raise) until replaced.

McGyver

N, Sm d6, Repair d6, Notice d8

Quickly create improvised devices from scraps.

Mr. Fix It

N, Repair d8 +2 to Repair rolls, half the time required with a raise.

Scholar

N, Research d8 +2 to any one "knowledge" skill.

Soldier

N, S d6, V d6

Strength is one die type higher for Encumbrance and Min Str. Reroll Vigor rolls when resisting environmental Hazards.

Thief

N, A d8, Stealth d6, Thievery d6

+1 Thievery, Athletics rolls made to climb, Stealth in urban environments.

Woodsman 62

N, Sp d6, Survival d8

+2 to Survival and Stealth in the wilds.

SOCIAL EDGES

EDGE

REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Bolster

N, Sp d8

May remove Distracted or Vulnerable state after a Test.

Common Bond

WC, N, Sp d8 The hero may freely give her Bennies to others.

Connections

N

Contacts provide aid or other favors once per session.

Humiliate

N, Taunt d8 Free reroll when making Taunt rolls.

Characters

Menacing

N, See Text +2 to Intimidation.

Provoke

N, Taunt d6 May "provoke" foes with a raise on a Taunt roll. See text.

Rabble-Rouser

S, Spirit d8

Affect all foes in a Medium Blast Template with an Intimidation or Taunt Test. Limited action.

Reliable

N, Sp d8

Free reroll when making Support rolls.

Retort

N, Taunt d6

A raise when resisting a Taunt or Intimidation attack makes the foe Distracted.

Streetwise

N, Sm d6 +2 to Common Knowledge and criminal networking.

Strong Willed

N, Sp d8

+2 to resist Smarts or Spirit-based Tests.

Iron Will

S, Brave,

The bonus now applies to resisting and recovery from

Strong Willed powers.

Work the Room

N, Sp d8

Roll a second die when Supporting via Performance or Persuasion and apply result to additional ally. Limited action.

Work the Crowd S, Work the Room As above, but roll a third die. Limited action.

WEIRD EDGES

EDGE

REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Beast Bond

N

The hero may spend Bennies for animals under her control.

Beast Master

N, Sp d8

Animals like your hero and he has a pet of some sort. See text.

Champion

N, Sp d8, Fighting d6

+2 damage vs. supernaturally evil creatures.

Chi

V, Martial Warrior

Once per combat, reroll failed attack, make enemy reroll successful attack, or add +d6 to unarmed Fighting attack.

Danger Sense

N

Notice roll at +2 to sense ambushes or similar events.

Healer

N, Sp d8

+2 to Healing rolls, magical or otherwise.

Liquid Courage

N, V d8

Alcohol increases Vigor a die type and ignores one level of Wound penalty; ­1 to Agility, Smarts, and related skills.

Scavenger

N, Luck

May find a needed item once per encounter.

LEGENDARY EDGES

EDGE

REQUIREMENTS SUMMARY

Followers

WC, L

The hero has five followers.

Professional

L, Max Trait The character's Trait and its limit increases one step.

Expert

L, Professional in Trait

The character's Trait and its limit increases one step.

Master

WC, L, Expert in Trait

The character's Wild Die is a d10 with a chosen Trait.

Sidekick

WC, L

The character gains a Wild Card sidekick.

Tough as Nails

L, V d8

The hero can take four Wounds before being Incapacitated.

Tougher than Nails

L, Tough as Nails, V d12

The hero can take five Wounds before being Incapacitated.

Weapon Master L, Fighting d12 Parry increases by +1 and Fighting bonus damage die is d8.

Master of Arms

L, Weapon Master

Parry increases another +1 and Fighting bonus damage die is d10.

63

Chapter Two
Gear

In this section is a sampling of gear from the ancient era to the near future. Read the notes below before you go shopping to understand what each of these keywords means.
Costs
Characters are assumed to have clothes and other personal items. In modern settings, they also have a place to live, tools, maybe a vehicle, and basic necessities as befit the era.
The starting funds of $500 are for "adventuring gear" in addition to these personal items. Prices are set mostly in modern terms. For older or futuristic items, they're set relative to the starting funds. This can often cause some strange results--a nice suit in 1920 costs around $20 in the real world rather than the $200 listed here -- but the starting funds are higher than most people had as well.
Some items are also extremely difficult to price because they were typically made with forced labor--like catapults or trebuchets created by engineers and soldiers in the field. Their prices reflect an estimate of the time and resources needed to create them.
Use the prices listed in this book for quick games or as a baseline for campaign worlds of your own creation. Our official Savage Worlds settings have all new equipment lists and prices specific to their time and environment.

Gear Notes
Armor
This is the amount of Armor provided by the equipment, listed in parentheses beside the wearer's total Toughness. Unless an attacker states otherwise, hits are always directed at the victim's torso.
Worn Armor stacks with natural Armor (such as scaly skin) at its full value.
Worn Armor also stacks with one other layer. The lesser armor adds half its value (rounded down) to the total and increases the heavier armor's Minimum Strength penalty a die type. Wearing a chain shirt (+3) beneath plate mail (+4), adds +1 to the wearer's armor value, for a total of +5, and increases the Minimum Strength requirement to d12.
Armor Piercing\ (AP)
The weapon or round ignores this many points of Armor. A weapon with an AP value of 4, for instance, ignores 4 points of Armor. Excess AP is simply lost.
Caliber
The number listed in parentheses after firearms is the caliber of bullet it fires. Use this when figuring ammunition costs or trying to figure out if the ammo from one weapon fits in another. Rifle and pistol ammo are not interchangeable unless otherwise noted.

65

SAVAGE WORLDS

Damage
Damage is listed in terms of dice. Projectile weapons have fixed damage (such as 2d6). Melee weapons have damage based on the wielder's Strength die plus another die, as listed under individual weapon entries. A dagger, for instance, inflicts Str+d4 damage.
Heavy weapon (HW)
The weapon can affect vehicles or other devices with Heavy Armor (see page 82).
High Explosive (HE)
High explosive rounds use a blast template, the size of which is listed in the weapon or ammunition's notes. See the rules for Area of Effect on page 97.
Minimum Strength
Certain items have a "Minimum Strength" required to use without penalty. Note that some items list a d4 since it is possible to have a Strength lower than d4.
 ARMOR/WORN GEAR: Each die type differ ence between the character's Strength and the item's Minimum Strength inflicts a -1 penalty to Pace (minimum of 1), Agility, and Agility-related skill rolls. This is cumulative for those weak but determined adventurers who wear or use multiple items too heavy for their build.
 MELEE/THROWN WEAPONS: A thrown or melee weapon's damage die is limited by the user's Strength die. If a scrawny kid (Strength d4) picks up a long sword (Str+d8), he rolls d4 + d4 damage instead of d4 + d8. Also, if the user's Strength is less than its Minimum Strength, he doesn't benefit from any of the weapon's positive abilities such as Reach or Parry bonuses. He still retains any penalties, however.
 RANGED WEAPONS: The user suffers a -1 attack penalty for each die step difference between his Strength and the weapon's minimum.
Parry
The weapon adds the bonus to the character's Parry score. If a character wields a weapon in each hand, penalties to Parry stack but bonuses do not (unless she has the Ambidextrous Edge).

Range
This lists the weapon's Short, Medium, and Long Range. Extreme Range is up to 4 × i ts Long Range. See Ranged Attacks on page 93 for Shooting or Athletics (throwing) modifiers and more details.
Ranges are listed in inches so you can use a ruler to move, shoot, and fight on the tabletop with miniatures. If you're not using miniatures, each inch is equal to two yards.
Weapon ranges are "effective" ranges for the table-top. If you need to know the real world range of a weapon (for battles that don't take place on the table-top, for instance), multiply each range bracket by 2.5.
Rate of Fire
This is the number of shots that may be fired by this weapon in a single action. See Ranged Weapons on page 93 for further details.
Reach
Weapons with "Reach" allow their user to make Fighting attacks at the listed range. A Reach of 1, for example, allows a character to strike a target 1 distant. Weapons without a Reach value can only strike targets at arm's length (adjacent).
Reach can be very important when fighting from horseback and against mounted foes (see page 103).
Reload
Reloading magazines, clips, and individual bullets in modern firearms is explained in detail on page 105.
Some weapons, such as muskets and heavy crossbows, are much slower to reload. Once fired, the number after the word Reload is how many actions of reloading it takes before they can be fired again.
Snapfire
Certain weapons, such as heavy sniper rifles, are very inaccurate if fired from the hip rather than using their sights, scopes, bipod, or tripod. If a character moves in the round he fires a Snapfire weapon, he suffers a -2 Shooting penalty.

66

Gear

Three-Round Burst
A few military weapons can fire three rounds in rapid succession with one pull of the trigger. If the weapon has this ability, its RoF is 1 in that mode but it fires three bullets at once and adds +1 to the Shooting and damage rolls.
Two Hands
A two-handed weapon can be used with one hand at a -4 penalty. He counts his full Strength for damage but loses all other advantages such as Reach or Parry bonuses.

Encumbrance
Most of the time you don't need to worry about how much weight a character is carrying. If it becomes important to track, use the Encumbrance Levels table below. If a character carries more than the listed weight, he's Encumbered.
Encumbered characters subtract 2 from Pace (minimum 1), running rolls, Agility and all linked skills, and Vigor rolls made to resist Fatigue (see page 100).
At three times the lifted weight or more, he can move at a Pace of 1 for a number of rounds equal to his Vigor. Every round thereafter he must succeed at a Vigor roll or take a level of Fatigue.
The maximum weight a character can lift or carry is four times the listed weight.

ENCUMBRANCE

STRENGTH

CAN CARRY WEIGHT UP TO...

d4

20 lbs

d6

40 lbs

d8

60 lbs

d10

80 lbs

d12

100 lbs

Each +1

+20 lbs

Bulky Items: Carrying a bulky, awkward, or unbalanced item, such as a large box, treasure chest, a person, and so on, may make a character Encumbered despite its actual weight (GM's call).

COMMON GEAR

ITEM

COST WEIGHT



 ANIMALS & TACK 

Horse

300

--

War Horse

750

--

Saddle

10

10

Elaborate Saddle

50

10



 ADVENTURING GEAR 

Backpack

50

2

Bedroll (sleeping bag; winterized)

25

4

Blanket

10

4

Camera (disposable)

10

1

Camera (regular)

75

2

Camera (digital)

300

1

Candle (one hour, 2 radius) 1

1

Canteen (waterskin)

5

1

Crowbar

10

2

First Aid Kit

10

1

Notes: Three uses, see Healing on page 96.

Flashlight (10 beam)

20

3

Flask (ceramic)

5

1

Flint and Steel

3

1

Goggles

20

1

Grappling Hook

100

2

Hammer

10

1

Handcuffs (manacles)

15

2

Lantern (4 hours, 4 radius) 25

3

Lighter

2

--

Lockpicks

200

1

Medic Kit

100

4

Notes: Five uses, +1 to Healing skill rolls; $25

to refill.

Oil (for lantern; one pint)

2

1

Quiver (holds 20 arrows/ bolts)

25

2

Rope, hemp (10/20 yards)

10

15

Rope, nylon (10/20 yards)

10

3

Shovel

5

5

Soap

1

0.2

Tool Kit

200

5

Torch (one hour, 4 radius)

5

1

Umbrella

5

2

Whistle

2

--

Whetstone

5

1

67

SAVAGE WORLDS

ITEM

COST WEIGHT



CLOTHING

Boots, Hiking

100

2

Camouflage Fatigues

20

3

Clothing, Casual

20

2

Clothing, Formal

200

3

Winter Gear (cloak/parka)

200

3

Winter Boots

100

1



 COMPUTERS & ELECTRONICS 

Desktop

800

20

GPS

250

1

Hand held

250

1

Laptop

1,200

5



 FIREARMS ACCESSORIES 

Bipod/Tripod

100

2

Notes: Takes an action to deploy. Negates Recoil and Min Str penalties.

Laser/Red Dot Sight

150

1

Notes: +1 to Shooting at Short and Medium

Range.

Rifle Scope

100

2

Notes: Cancels 2 additional points of penalties when Aiming, page 97.



FOOD

Fast Food Meal

8

1

Good Meal (restaurant)

15+

--

MRE (Meal Ready to Eat)

10

1

Trail Rations

10

5

Notes: 5 meals; keeps one week.

ITEM

COST WEIGHT



 PERSONAL DEFENSE 

Pepper Spray

15

0.5

Notes: Use Shooting (or Fighting if engaged). No Range penalty but max range is 2 (about 10 feet), Shots 5, victim must make Vigor roll

at ­2 or be Stunned (page 106).

Stun Gun

25

0.5

Notes: Uses Shooting. Range 1/2/4. Shots 3 before needing to be recharged for at least

two hours. Victims must make a Vigor roll at ­2 or be Stunned.



SURVEILLANCE

"Bug" (Micro Transmitter)

30

--

Notes: 12 hours of continuous use.

Button Camera

50

--

Notes: 12 hours of continuous use.

Cellular Interceptor

650

5

Lineman's Telephone

150

2

Notes: Repair roll to tap into a phone line.

Night Vision Goggles

500

3

Notes: No penalty for Dim or Dark Illumination (see page 102). For double the price the goggles are "active" and ignore all Illumination penalties.

Parabolic Microphone

750

4

Notes: Hear whispers up to 200 yards distant.

Telephone Tap

250

--

Transmitter Detector

525

1

AMMO
Arrows/Bolts
Bullets Small Medium Large
Laser Batteries Pistol Rifle, SMG Gatling
Shot (w/powder)
Shotgun Shells Slugs
Sling stones
68

COST 1/2 arrows

Ammo
WEIGHT NOTES 1 lbs/5 arrows Arrows for bows, bolts for crossbows

10/50 rounds 20/50 rounds 50/50 rounds

1 lbs/50 2 lbs/50 15 lbs/50

.22 to .32 caliber 9mm to .45 caliber .50 caliber and larger rounds

20 20 50
1/10 shots

0.25 0.5 4
0.5 lbs/10

Provides one full magazine for the listed weapon
For black powder weapons

15/25 20/25
2/20 stones

1.5 lbs/25 1.5 lbs/25
1 lbs/20

Standard buckshot See page 105.
--

Armor

Gear

Armor is written in parentheses next to a character's Toughness, like this: 11 (2). This means 2 points of the character's 11 Toughness comes from Armor. An Armor Piercing attack can bypass those 2 points but not the other 9.
Note that greaves (leg guards) and vambraces (arm guards) are listed as pairs. Halve the weight and cost if a character wears only half the set (Minimum Strength doesn't change).

MEDIEVAL & ANCIENT ARMOR

ITEM

ARMOR

MIN STR.

WEIGHT



 CLOTH/LIGHT LEATHER 

Heavy winter clothing, supple leather armor, soft hides.

Jacket (torso, arms)

+1

d4

5

Robes (torso, arms, legs)

+1

d4

8

Leggings (legs)

+1

d4

5

Cap (head)

+1

d4

1



 THICK LEATHER/TOUGH HIDES 

Boiled leather, cuir bouilli, alligator hides.

Jacket (torso, arms)

+2

d6

8

Leggings (legs)

+2

d6

7

Cap (head)

+2

d6

1



 CHAIN MAIL 

Chain, splint, metal scale, ring mail, samurai armor.

Shirt (torso, arms)

+3

d8

25

Leggings (legs)

+3

d8

10

Chain Hood or Helm (head)

+3

d8

4



 BRONZE ARMOR (PRE-IRON AGE SETTINGS) 

Typically only found in ancient times or pre-iron civilizations.

Bronze Barding (horse)

+3

d10

50

Bronze Corselet (torso)

+3

d8

13

Vambraces (arms)

+3

d8

5

Greaves (legs)

+3

d8

6

Bronze Helmet (head)

+3

d8

6



 PLATE MAIL 

Heavy steel armor made with "plates" of metal.

Plate Barding (horse)

+4

d10

50

Corselet (torso)

+4

d10

30

Vambraces (arms)

+4

d10

10

Greaves (legs)

+4

d10

10

Heavy Helm (head)

+4

d10

4

Heavy Helm, Enclosed (head)

+4

d10

8

Notes: ­1 to vision-based Notice rolls.

COST
20 30 20 5
80 40 20
300 150 25
1,500 80 40 50 25
1,500 500 200 200 100 200

"G otta R emember g ear costs ar e r elative to their

usual per iods -- not actual pr ices . I mig ht want to chang e

them as R ed and G abe g o dimension- hopping."



--The G M 69

SAVAGE WORLDS

MODERN ARMOR

Ballistic Protection: Armor marked with an asterisk reduces the damage from bullets by 4. "Bullets" includes physical shot fired from a firearm.

Apply AP only to the item's actual Armor value.

ITEM

ARMOR

MIN STR.

WEIGHT

COST



CLOTH/LEATHER

Heavy winter clothing, leather jacket or pants, chaps.

Thick Coat, Leather Jacket (torso, arms)

+1

d4

Leather Riding Chaps (legs)

+1

d4

Kevlar Riding Jacket (torso, arms)

+2

d4

Kevlar Riding Jeans (legs)

+2

d4

Bike helmet (head)

+2

d4

Motorcycle Helmet (head)

+3

d4

5

100

5

70

8

350

4

175

1

50

3

100



 BODY ARMOR 

Flak jackets, bulletproof vests, body armor, and bombproof suits.

Flak Jacket (Vietnam-era, torso)

+2

d6

10

40

Kevlar Vest (torso)

+2*

d6

5

200

Kevlar Vest with ceramic inserts (torso)

+4*

d8

17

500

Kevlar helmet (head)

+4*

d4

5

80

Bombproof Suit (entire body)

+10

d12

80

25K

Notes: Bombproof suits aren't built for flexibility except in the hands, which are uncovered. Agility and related skills that require more than manual dexterity cannot exceed d6 while wearing the suit, and Pace is reduced by 2 (in addition to Minimum Strength penalties).

FUTURISTIC ARMOR

ITEM

ARMOR

MIN STR.

WEIGHT

COST



 LIGHT/CIVILIAN ARMOR 

Energy Skin: Any armor listed below may be treated with an "energy skin" (or skein) to diffuse energy, reducing

damage from lasers by 4. This costs 50% of the armor treated and is very shiny, subtracting 2 from Stealth

rolls based on vision.

Body Armor (torso, arms, legs)

+4*

d4

4

200

Notes: Light, armored clothing made from complex polymers or advanced ballistic weave.



 MILITARY ARMOR 

Armor used by private or state armed forces.

Infantry Battle Suit (torso, arms, legs)

+6*

Notes: A full suit of armor with boots and gloves.

d6

12

800

Battle Helmet (head, full face)

+6*

d6

2

100

70

SHIELDS

Shields add to a character's Parry as shown below. Cover subtracts from ranged attacks from the front and shielded side (attacks from the rear or unprotected side ignore cover).
Medieval shields are Hardness 10 and provide +2 armor should someone attempt to shoot through them (see Obstacles on page 99). Modern shields are Hardness 12 and also provide +2 Armor. Polymer shields are Hardness 10 and provide Armor +4.
While worn, shields can be used to bash for Str+d4 damage.

TYPE

PARRY

COVER MIN STR. WEIGHT

COST



 ANCIENT & MEDIEVAL 

Small

+1

--

d4

4

50

Medium

+2

-2

d6

8

100

Large

+3

-4

d8

12

200



MODERN

Riot Shield

+3

-4

d4

5

80

Ballistic Shield

+3

-4

d6

9

250

Notes: Reduces damage from firearms by 4 when an attacker tries to shoot through it.



FUTURISTIC

Polymer Shield, Small

+1

--

d4

2

200

Polymer Shield, Medium

+2

-2

d4

4

300

Polymer Shield, Large

+3

-4

d6

6

400

Gear

71

Personal Weapons

SAVAGE WORLDS

TYPE  Axe, Hand Axe, Battle Axe, Great Club, Light Club, Heavy Dagger/Knife Flail Halberd Katana
Lance
Mace
Maul
Pike Rapier
Spear
Staff Sword, Great Sword, Long Sword, Short Warhammer 
Bangstick
Bayonet
Billy Club/Baton
Brass Knuckles
Chainsaw Switchblade
Survival Knife
 Molecular Knife Molecular Sword Laser Sword
72

DAMAGE
Str+d6 Str+d8 Str+d10 Str+d4 Str+d6 Str+d4 Str+d6 Str+d8 Str+d6+1 Str+d8 Str+d6 Str+d10 Str+d8 Str+d4 Str+d6 Str+d4 Str+d10 Str+d8 Str+d6 Str+d6
3d6
Str+d4 Str+d4 Str+d4 2d6+4 Str+d4 Str+d4
Str+d4+2 Str+d8+2 Str+d6+8

MELEE WEAPONS

MIN STR.

WEIGHT

COST NOTES

MEDIEVAL

d6

2

100 --

d8

4

300 --

d10

7

400 AP 2, Parry ­1, two hands

d4

2

25 A sign of low status or thuggery

d6

5

50 A sign of low status or thuggery

d4

1

25 --

d6

3

200 Ignores shield bonus

d8

6

250 Reach 1, two hands

d6

3

1,000 Two hands

d8

6

300

AP 2 when charging, Reach 2, only usable in mounted combat

d6

4

100 --

d10

10

400

Two hands, +2 damage to break objects (page 98)

d8

18

400 Reach 2, two hands

d4

2

150 Parry +1

d6

3

100

Reach 1. Parry +1 if used two-handed

d4

4

10 Parry +1, Reach 1, two hands

d10

6

400 Two hands

d8

3

300 Basic swords and scimitars

d6

2

100 Includes cavalry sabers

d6

2

250 Spiked, AP 1

MODERN

d6

2

A shotgun shell on a stick used in 5 melee; must be reloaded with a
fresh shell (one action)

d4

1

25

Str +d6 and Parry +1 attached to rifle, Reach 1, two hands

d4

1

10 Often carried by law enforcement

d4

1

20

Do not count as a weapon for Unarmed Defender (page 109)

d6

20

200 Critical Failure hits the user

d4

0.5

10 -2 to be Noticed if hidden

d4

1

50

Basic tools in handle add +1 to Survival rolls

FUTURISTIC

d4

0.5

250 AP 2, Cannot be thrown

d6

2

500 AP 4

d4

2

1,000 AP 12

Gear

RANGED WEAPONS

Thrown axes and knives, bows, nets, slings, and spears are available in most every era or setting.

TYPE

RANGE

DAMAGE

AP ROF

MIN STR. WEIGHT

COST



MEDIEVAL

Axe, Throwing

3/6/12

Str+d6 -- 1

d6

3

100

Bow

12/24/48

2d6

--1

d6

3

250

Crossbow (Hand Drawn)

10/20/40

2d6

2

1

d6

5

250

Notes: Hand-drawn.

Crossbow, Heavy

15/30/60

2d8

2

1

d6

8

400

Notes: Requires a windlass to load. Reload 2.

Dagger/Knife

3/6/12

Str+d4 -- 1

d4

1

25

Long Bow

15/30/60

2d6

1

1

d8

3

300

Net (Weighted)

3/6/12

--

--1

d4

8

50

Notes: A successful hit means the target is Entangled (see page 98). The net is Hardness 6 and

vulnerable only to cutting attacks.

Sling (Athletics (throwing))

4/8/16

Str+d4 -- 1

d4

1

10

Spear/Javelin

3/6/12

Str+d6 -- 1

d6

3

100



MODERN

Compound Bow

12/24/48

Str+d6

1

1

d6

3

200

Crossbow

15/30/60

2d6

2

1

d6

7

300

BLACK POWDER WEAPONS

Black powder weapons are Reload 3.

TYPE

RANGE

DAMAGE

MIN AP ROF SHOTS STR. WEIGHT

COST



PISTOLS

Flintlock Pistol

5/10/20

2d6+1

--1

--

d4

3

150



MUSKETS

Brown Bess or Similar Muskets

10/20/40

2d8

--1

--

d6

15

300

Blunderbuss

10/20/40

1­3d6

--

1

--

d6

12

300

Notes: Treat as Shotgun, see page 105.



 RIFLED MUSKETS 

Kentucky Rifle

15/30/60

2d8

2

1

--

d6

8

300

Notes: Reload 4. The tight rifling requires four actions to reload instead of the usual three.

Springfield Model 1861

15/30/60

2d8

--1

--

d6

11

250

Smoothbore Musket 73

SAVAGE WORLDS

Modern Firearms

PISTOLS

TYPE

RANGE

MIN DAMAGE AP ROF SHOTS STR. WEIGHT COST



REVOLVERS

Revolvers typically have six chambers that must be reloaded one bullet at a time, though separate cylinders

called "speed loaders" are also available for more modern firearms for about 10% of the weapon's cost.

Derringer (.41)

3/6/12

2d4

--

1

2

d4

1

100

Notes: -2 to be Noticed if hidden

Police Revolver (.38) 10/20/40

2d6

--

1

6

d4

2

150

Colt Peacemaker (.45) 12/24/48

2d6+1

1

1

6

d4

4

200

Smith & Wesson (.357) 12/24/48

2d6+1

1

1

6

d4

5

250



SEMI-AUTOMATICS

Semi-automatics are fed from a magazine. The standard size magazines are listed below. Additional

magazines may be purchased for 10% of the weapon's cost. They weigh about 1 lb each, fully loaded.

Colt 1911 (.45)

12/24/48

2d6+1

1

1

7

d4

4

200

Desert Eagle (.50)

15/30/60

2d8

2

1

7

d6

8

300

Glock (9mm)

12/24/48

2d6

1

1

17

d4

3

200

Ruger (.22)

10/20/40

2d4

--

1

9

d4

2

100

SUBMACHINE GUNS

Typical magazine sizes are listed with each weapon. Additional magazines are available at 10% of the weapon's cost and weigh about 1 lb each, fully loaded.

TYPE

RANGE

MIN DAMAGE AP ROF SHOTS STR. WEIGHT COST

H&K MP5 (9mm)

12/24/48

2d6

1

3

30

d6

10

300

Tommy Gun (.45)

12/24/48

2d6+1

1

3

20

d6

13

350

Notes: Thompson submachine guns may also use a 50-round drum. This increases the weight by 2

lbs and each loaded drum costs $50.

Uzi (9mm)

12/24/48

2d6

1

3

32

d4

9

300

SHOTGUNS

Shotguns fire a spread of pellets (called "shot" or "buckshot") to increase the shooter's chance of hitting his target. Up close, the blast can be devastating. See Shotguns on page 105 for details.

TYPE Double-Barrel Pump Action Sawed-Off DB Streetsweeper

RANGE 12/24/48 12/24/48 5/10/20 12/24/48

MIN DAMAGE AP ROF SHOTS STR. WEIGHT COST

1­3d6

--

1

2

d6

11

150

1­3d6

--

1

6

d4

8

150

1­3d6

--

1

2

d4

6

150

1­3d6

--

1

12

d6

10

450

74

"Tommy" Gun

M1911 Colt .45

Gear

RIFLES

Rifles can be either bolt-action, lever-action, or fed from a magazine or clip, noted in its description. Additional magazines or clips cost 10% of the rifle and weigh 1 lb each.

TYPE

RANGE

MIN DAMAGE AP ROF SHOTS STR. WEIGHT COST



 LEVER- AND BOLT ACTION RIFLES 

Barrett (.50)

50/100/200 2d10

4

1

10

d8

35

750

Notes: Heavy Weapon, Snapfire. Barretts use a 10-shot removable magazine that weighs 2 lbs when loaded. They are almost always fitted with a scope.

M1 Garand (.30-06)

24/48/96

2d8

2

1

Notes: The standard US infantry rifle in World War II.

8

d6

10

300

Hunting Rifle (.308)

24/48/96

2d8

2

1

5

d6

8

350

Notes: Snapfire.

Sharps Big 50 (.50) Notes: Snapfire.

30/60/120

2d10

2

1

1

d8

11

400

Spencer Carbine (.52) 20/40/80

2d8

2

1

7

d4

8

250

Winchester `73 (.44-40) 24/48/96

2d8­1

2

1

15

d6

10

300



 ASSAULT RIFLES 

AK47 (7.62mm)

24/48/96

2d8+1

2

3

30

d6

10

450

M-16 (5.56mm)

24/48/96

2d8

2

3 20/30 d6

8

400

Notes: The A-2 version can also fire a Three-Round Burst (see page 67).

Steyr AUG (5.56mm) 24/48/96

2d8

2

3

30

d6

8

400

Notes: May fire a Three-Round Burst (see page 67).

MACHINE GUNS

Machine guns are heavy, fully automatic weapons built to withstand prolonged fire. Most are fed by belts or drums and thus have far more ammo capacity than assault rifles, despite similar calibers and rates of fire.
Weapon Mount: Most machine-guns require a bipod, tripod, or vehicle mount to fire, which eliminates any Strength requirement and the Recoil penalty (see page 105). Their Minimum Strength is listed as "NA," or "Not Applicable." If a weapon has a Minimum Strength listed, it may be fired from the hip with the Snapfire and Recoil penalties.
Minimum Rate of Fire: Machine-guns have a minimum Rate of Fire of 2 unless otherwise noted.
Reloading: Machine guns are Reload 2, which includes changing belts or drums, cocking, etc.

TYPE

RANGE

MIN DAMAGE AP ROF SHOTS STR. WEIGHT COST

Browning Automatic Rifle (BAR) (.30-06)

20/40/60

2d8

2

3

20

d8

17

300

Notes: Rate of Fire 1 to 3. Uses magazines (one action to Reload instead of the usual 2).

Gatling (.45)

24/48/96

2d8

2

3

100 NA 170

500

Minigun (7.62mm)

30/60/120 2d8+1

2

5

4000 d10

85

100K

Notes: Minimum Rate of Fire 3, requires backpack harness with ammo which weighs an additional 85 pounds when full (carries 4000 linked rounds).

M2 Browning (.50 Cal) 50/100/200 Notes: Heavy Weapon.

2d10

4

3

200 NA

84

1,500

M60 (7.62mm)

30/60/120 2d8+1

2

3

100 d8

33

6,000

MG42 (7.92mm)

30/60/120 2d8+1

2

4

200 d10

26

750

SAW (5.56mm)

30/60/120

2d8

2

4

200 d8

20

4,000

75

SAVAGE WORLDS

LASERS (FUTURISTIC)

Lasers fire intensely focused beams of light to penetrate and burn their targets.

Cauterize: Anyone Incapacitated by a laser blast adds +2 to his Vigor rolls to keep from Bleeding Out.

Overcharge: The lasers below can overcharge to cause an extra d6 damage, but if any of the Shooting dice are a 1, the weapon must cool down for a full round before it can be fired again.

No Recoil: Pistols, SMGs, and rifles ignore the Recoil penalty. Gatling lasers still take the penalty, however, which is why they're usually mounted on a tripod.

TYPE

RANGE

MIN DAMAGE AP ROF SHOTS STR. WEIGHT COST

Pistol

15/30/60

2d6

2

1

50

d4

2

250

SMG

15/30/60

2d6

2

4

100 d4

4

500

Rifle

30/60/120

3d6

2

3

100 d6

8

700

Gatling Laser

50/100/200 3d6+4 2

4

800 d8

20

1,000

76

Gear

Special Weapons

CANNONS

Cannons are used to destroy city walls or break up large troop formations. The leader of the weapon's crew makes the Shooting roll.
Bombard: Assuming they have a rough idea of their target's location, howitzers, mortars, and bombards may fire at targets they cannot see by lobbing projectiles over intervening terrain or obstacles. Bombarding suffers a -4 penalty in addition to all other modifiers, and doubles deviation when the Shooting roll is failed (see Area Effect Attacks, page 97). Reduce the penalty to -2 with precise coordinates (such as from a spotter).
Cannons can fire three different types of shells: solid shot, shrapnel, and canister. The crew can pick the type of ammunition to be loaded each time it reloads.
 Solid Shot: Heavy balls of iron, lead, or stone designed to batter walls or plow through packed ranks of troops. To fire, the leader of the crew makes a Shooting roll as usual. If successful, roll a die. If even, it bounces to another victim behind and within 6" of the first and hits him as well. Continue in this way until the die roll is odd.
 Shrapnel: Explosive shells filled with small metal balls that explode outward in a shower of debris. This is an area effect attack and uses the Medium Blast Template unless otherwise noted.
 Canister: Grapeshot or canister is a shell that detonates inside the barrel of a cannon and fires out a spray of deadly balls or other debris like a giant shotgun. The attack is the size of a Medium Blast Template and moves in a straight line up to 24" (it affects d6 targets if not using miniatures, or 2d6 if they're tightly packed). Compare the Shooting roll to every target within using a base TN of 4, adjusted for each target's cover, special abilities like the Dodge Edge, etc. A hit causes 2d6 damage and a raise causes 3d6.
Note: All types of shot are Heavy Weapons, Reload 8. Two crew members may reload at the same time.

TYPE

RANGE

DAMAGE AP ROF

BLAST WEIGHT COST

Cannon (12 lb)



By Ammo Type

1200

10K

Canister

24 path

2d6

--

1

MBT

--

50

Solid Shot

50/100/200 3d6+1

4

1

--

--

50

Shrapnel

50/100/200

3d6

--

1

MBT

--

50

CATAPULTS

Catapults are simple devices that hurl large stones at enemy defenses or ranks of troops. They normally require a crew of eight to load the projectile, crank down the lever that propels it, then sight and aim it. Firing can be done by a single person, but loading the projectile takes at least four.

TYPE

RANGE

DAMAGE AP ROF

BLAST WEIGHT COST

Catapult

24/48/96

3d6

4 Special MBT

Notes: Heavy Weapon, Reload time is every 5 minutes with a crew of 4.

--

10K

Trebuchet

30/60/120

3d8

4 Special MBT

Notes: Heavy Weapon, Reload time is every 5 minutes with a crew of 4.

--

50K

77

SAVAGE WORLDS

FLAMETHROWERS

Flamethrowers propel incendiary liquid or gas to incinerate their targets. They are Heavy Weapons, use the Cone Template (see Area Effect Attacks, page 97), and may be Evaded (page 100). Armor protects normally, but flammable targets may catch fire (see Fire, page 127). For vehicular flamethrowers, see page 80.

TYPE

RANGE

DAMAGE

MIN AP ROF SHOTS STR. WEIGHT COST

Flamethrower

Cone Template

3d6

--1

10

d8

70

300

GRENADES

Grenades activate when their safety pin is pulled, then detonate a few seconds later. They are thrown with the Athletics skill at the Ranges listed below, and cannot make use of Extreme Range (see page 93). All grenades are Heavy Weapons and detonate in the listed blast template (see Area Effect Attacks, page 97). Grenades may be Evaded. See Evasion, page 100.

TYPE

RANGE

DAMAGE AP ROF

BLAST WEIGHT COST

Mk II (WW2 Pineapple) 4/8/16

3d6

----

MBT

1

40

Potato Masher (WW2) 5/10/20

3d6­2

----

MBT

2

50

Mk67 (Modern)

5/10/20

3d6

----

MBT

1

50

Smoke Grenade

5/10/20

--

----

LBT

1

50

Notes: Creates an area of smoke in a LBT that obscures vision (­4).

Stun Grenade

5/10/20

--

----

LBT

1

50

Notes: Targets must make a Vigor roll (at ­2 with a raise) or be Stunned (see page 106).

More on Grenades
These additional rules get a bit picky, but they represent the cinematic shenanigans-- and real-life heroics--players often look for in their game.
Grenades in the modern era and earlier explode after mechanisms inside trigger the detonator -- typically a delay of three to five seconds depending on make and model after the pin is pulled to initiate detonation.
Hot Potato: Because of the delay in the grenade's detonation, one character (and one only) in the blast radius can attempt to pick up and throw the grenade before it goes off. This is an Athletics roll at -4 as a free action (or -2 if he was on Hold, but it consumes his held action). Failure means it goes off before he can throw it, causing damage as if thrown with a raise (if it wasn't already).
Cooking: A character can "cook" a grenade by pulling its pin and counting off a few seconds so that it can't be thrown back. To do so, the attacker first makes a Smarts roll as a free action. With success, he times the detonation correctly and it can't be hurled back or Evaded (page 100). Failure means it can be thrown back or Evaded, and a Critical Failure on the Smarts roll means it detonates in the attacker's hand! Roll damage as if thrown with a raise.
Covering Grenades: A character may also throw himself on a grenade. He takes double the normal dice of damage for his heroic act, but his total Toughness is subtracted from the damage inflicted on other characters in the blast radius.

78

Gear

MINES

Mines are explosives planted beneath shallow dirt that detonate in the listed blast template when a person (for anti-personnel mines) or vehicle (for anti-tank mines) passes over them.
Minefields: For dramatic purposes, a character who steps on a mine should get a Notice roll. Success means she realizes it before stepping off and detonating it. Saving the victim requires a Repair roll at -4, but failure detonates the device immediately.

TYPE

RANGE

DAMAGE AP ROF

BLAST WEIGHT COST

Anti-Personnel Mine

--

Notes: Heavy Weapon.

2d6+2

----

SBT

10

100

Anti-Tank Mine

--

4d6

----

MBT

20

200

Notes: Heavy Weapon, AP 5 vs. ½ the vehicle's Armor value (round up).

Bouncing Betty

--

3d6

----

SBT

9

125

Notes: These deadly anti-personnel mines are designed to pop up into the air and rain shrapnel down from about head-height. Only full overhead cover offers an Armor bonus against such devices. Simply being prone offers no protection from these deadly explosives.

Claymore Mine

--

3d6

----

Special

4

75

Notes: Claymores fire a spray of deadly steel balls in a 60° frontal arc. Everyone within 12 (24 yards) is automatically hit. Roll a die for all other targets up to 50 (100 yards). Those who get an odd result are also hit.

MISSILES

Unless otherwise noted, missiles must "lock" onto their targets before they can be fired. This action is an opposed Electronics roll versus the target's maneuvering skill (Boating, Driving, or Piloting, as appropriate). Success gives the attacker a "short" lock and allows him to fire up to half the missiles his particular craft can fire at once. A raise is a more solid lock and allows him to fire all of them.
The enemy attempts to evade each missile separately by making a maneuvering roll at -4 (or -2 if the target has substantial cover to hide behind--such as asteroids, skyscrapers, canyon walls, or even large enemy ships. A Critical Failure means the craft goes Out of Control (see page 119).
Anti-Missile Systems: Warships and futuristic space vessels often have "point defense" systems to shoot down incoming missiles. Operators must be on Hold to shoot down missiles; automated systems attack automatically. The system grants a single Shooting roll per missile at Short Range and any other relevant modifiers (including Speed -- missiles move at Mach 1, a -6 penalty, unless otherwise noted). Unless otherwise noted, missiles are objects with a Toughness of 8 (2) (see Breaking Things, page 98).

TYPE

RANGE

DAMAGE AP ROF

BLAST WEIGHT COST

TOW

75/150/300

5d10

34

1

MBT

207

60K

Notes: Heavy Weapon. A wire-guided missile fired from a portable or vehicle-mounted launcher.

Doesn't require a lock--just a Shooting roll, and can't be jammed.

Hellfire

150/300/600

5d10

40 --

MBT

100

Notes: Heavy Weapon. A laser-guided missile fired from a vehicle-mounted launcher.

115K

Sidewinder

100/200/400

4d8

6

--

SBT

188

Notes: Heavy Weapon. A short range, heat-seeking missile fired from an aircraft.

600K

Sparrow

150/300/600

5d8

6

--

SBT

617

Notes: Heavy Weapon. A medium range, radar-guided missile fired from an aircraft.

125K

79

SAVAGE WORLDS

ROCKET LAUNCHERS & TORPEDOES

Rocket launchers and early torpedoes are direct-fire weapons that explode on contact with their target. All the listed weapons are Heavy Weapons.

TYPE

RANGE

DAMAGE AP ROF

BLAST WEIGHT COST

AT-4

24/48/96

4d8+2

24

1

Notes: A heavy American anti-tank weapon of the modern era.

MBT

15

1,500

Bazooka

24/48/96

4d8

8

1

MBT

12

500

Notes: Snapfire. The standard American anti-tank weapon in World War II. Additional warheads weigh 9 lbs and cost $50. WWII price.

M203 40MM

24/48/96

4d8

--

1

MBT

3

Notes: Snapfire. A grenade launcher mounted on the bottom of an assault rifle.

1,500

M72 Law

24/48/96

4d8+2

22

1

MBT

Notes: Snapfire. The standard American anti-tank weapon in Vietnam.

5

750

Panzerschreck

15/30/60

4d8

12

1

MBT

20

1,000

Notes: Snapfire. Literally, the "tank terror" rocket launcher used by German forces in World War II.

Torpedo

300/600/1200 8d10

22

1

LBT

3000

500K

VEHICULAR WEAPONS

Below are the most common weapons mounted on military vehicles in the 20th century and beyond. All except the medium machine gun and Gatling laser are Heavy Weapons.
Minimum Rate of Fire: Vehicular weapons with a Rate of Fire 3 or higher have a minimum Rate of Fire of 2.
Heavy Flamethrowers: Vehicular flamethrowers have longer ranges than personal devices. The wielder can use the Cone Template or arc a blast the size of a Medium Blast Template up to 18" (36 yards) distant. (Use the center of the template for the Range.) This shot can Deviate (see Area Effect Attacks, page 97).
Tank and AT Guns: May fire either Armor Piercing (AP) or High-Explosive (HE) rounds as the gunner chooses. AP rounds do additional damage up close. Increase the weapon's damage dice by one when fired at half their Short Range or less (so 4d10+2 becomes 5d10+2, for example).
Costs: Prices of military-grade weapons varies widely depending on setting, and should be considered baselines the GM can use to set prices in her campaign world.

TYPE

RANGE

AP ROUNDS

HE ROUNDS

ROF

COST

Med. Machine Gun

30/60/120

2d8+1, AP 2

--

3

750

Heavy Machine Gun 50/100/200

2d10, AP 4

--

3

1,000

Heavy Flamethrower Cone or MBT

--

3d8

1

1,000

20mm Cannon

50/100/200

2d12, AP 4

--

4

50K

25mm Cannon

50/100/200

3d8, AP 4

--

3

75K

30mm Cannon

50/100/200

3d8, AP 6

--

3

200K

40mm Cannon

75/150/300

4d8, AP 5

3d8, AP 2, MBT

4

200K

2 pd AT Gun

75/150/300

4d8, AP 5

3d6, AP 2, MBT

1

75K

37mm AT Gun

50/100/200

4d8, AP 3

4d6, AP 3, MBT

1

100K

57mm AT Gun

75/150/300

4d8, AP 5

3d8, AP 3, MBT

1

150K

75mm Tank Gun

75/150/300

4d10, AP 6

3d8, AP 3, MBT

1

250K

76mm Tank Gun

75/150/300

4d10, AP 10

3d8, AP 5, MBT

1

300K

88mm Tank Gun

100/200/400 4d10+1, AP 16

4d8, AP 8, MBT

1

500K

120mm Tank Gun

100/200/400

5d10, AP 31

4d8, AP 17, MBT

1

800K

125mm Tank Gun

100/200/400

5d10, AP 30

4d8, AP 15, MBT

1

1M



FUTURISTIC

Gatling Laser

50/100/200

3d6+4, AP 4

--

4

1K

Heavy Laser

150/300/600

4d10, AP 30

--

1

1M

80

Vehicles
On the following pages are a number of sample vehicles for land, air, and water, including some military vehicles such as tanks and armored personnel carriers.
 SIZE: The Size and Scale of the vehicle relative to a human (see Scale on page 106 and the Size Table on page 179). Vehicles can normally take three Wounds before they're Wrecked (page 118), but Large Vehicles can take one additional Wound, Huge vehicles two, and Gargantuan three.
 HANDLING: The vehicle's responsiveness and maneuverability is added or subtracted from all its operator's maneuvering rolls (Boating, Driving, or Piloting). This typically ranges from -4 for particularly slow or sluggish vehicles to +4 for those that can turn on a dime.
 TOP SPEED: Top Speed is expressed in miles per hour (MPH) rather than Pace so it's easier for you to look up real-world vehicles and use them in your game. The Chase rules only care about the relative

speeds of vehicles anyway, not their actual speeds (see Chases, page 113.)
To convert miles per hour to Pace, multiply MPH by 1.5. See the Vehicles on the Tabletop sidebar on page 120 to integrate vehicles into tabletop combats with characters.
 TOUGHNESS: The vehicle's base durability including Armor (in parentheses). Use the vehicles included in this book as a guide when creating your own or writing up those that aren't listed here.
To estimate the Armor value of real world vehicles with Heavy Armor (tanks), start with +4 as a base, then add +2 for every inch of armor up to 10, +1 per inch up to 20, and finally +1 for every two full inches after that. A tank with 23 of armor, for example, has an Armor value of (4 + 2 0 + 1 0 + 1 ) = 35.
Adjust to reflect any other factors such as modern composite materials and the like.
 CREW: The number of crew plus any additional passengers it can transport. A notation of "2 + 8," for example, means it requires a crew of two and can carry up to eight additional passengers.
 COST: The average price of the vehicle.

Gear

81

Vehicle Notes

Linked: Weapons of the same type may be dual or quad linked and fired as one (triple

SAVAGE WORLDS

Air Bags & Safety Harnesses: Passengers with vehicular protective devices take half damage from collisions (round down). See

linked is ineffective). Dual linked weapons add +1 to hit and +2 damage; quad linked weapons add +2 to hit and +4 damage.

Wrecked on page 118 for details.

Example: A pilot with d8 Shooting in a Spitfire

Amphibious: The vehicle can enter water (8× machine-guns, RoF 3) rolls 3d8 for each

without flooding or capsizing. See the wing, adding +2 to his Shooting total and +4

individual descriptions for their movement damage to those rounds that hit.

rates while in water.
Anti-Missile Counter Measures (AMCM): AMCM systems are electronic jammers, chaff, and flares. They add +2 to a user's maneuvering rolls to evade missiles (see Missiles, page 79).
Four-Wheel Drive (4WD): Treat each inch of Difficult Ground as 1.5 instead of 2.
Heavy Armor: Only weapons marked as Heavy Weapons can hurt this vehicle, regard less of the damage roll. This keeps a lucky pistol shot from destroying a tank. Vehicles with Heavy Armor halve damage they take from colliding with other obstacles (including vehicles) that don't have Heavy Armor.
Unless otherwise specified, these vehicles have less protection on their sides and rear. Attacks that hit either (GM's call) increase the weapon's damage dice by one, thus 3d8 becomes 4d8, for example.
Hover: The vehicle is a hovercraft and can ignore most low terrain obstacles and water.
Infrared Night Vision: Thermal imaging devices halve Illumination penalties versus targets that give off heat.

Night Vision: Various vehicular night vision systems eliminate Dim and Dark Illumination penalties as long as there is at least some amount of ambient light.
Reaction Fire: These weapons have special abilities in Chases. See page 117.
Sloped Armor: Sloped armor deflects shots away from the hull. Direct-fire ballistic attacks against the vehicle, such as a tank gun or bazooka, suffer a -2 Shooting penalty.
Spacecraft: The vehicle is designed for use in outer space. Those noted as Atmospheric can enter and exit planetary atmospheres as well.
Stabilizer: A stabilizer reduces the Unstable Platform penalty for whatever weapon it's attached to (usually the main gun of a tank or armored vehicle). The penalty is reduced to -1 for a Stabilizer and 0 for an Improved Stabilizer.
Stealth Paint: Radar-absorbent black paint makes the vehicle less detectable by sensors. Electronics rolls to spot or lock onto the target are made at -4.
Tracked: Tracked vehicles can climb over most low obstacles such as logs or low rocks,

and can push through snow, mud, and other

Converting From Previous Editions

slippery surfaces. They ignore movement penalties for Difficult Ground.
Weapons: Vehicles with weapons note

Vehicles in this list have slightly different their location for narrative play and for the

statistics from previous editions:

Chase rules (see page 113). Here are the

Acceleration ("Acc"): Acceleration is now most common:

factored into Handling and Top Speed.

 FIXED: The vehicle's weapon fires only in

Climb: Climb has now been factored into each aircraft's Handling value.

the listed direction (typically front or rear in a 45° arc).

Pace: Pace in previous editions was based on "tabletop" speed and much lower than the values in this edition. To convert a real vehicle, look up its actual top speed in MPH. For fictional vehicles, multiply the

 PINTLE MOUNT: A raised swivel mount that can fire in a 180° arc to the listed direction. If mounted on the turret it must fire in the same facing as the turret each turn.

old Top Speed by 3 to get its Top Speed in  TURRET: The weapon is in a turret and has

real world MPH.

a 360° arc of fire.

82

Vehicles

Gear

GROUND VEHICLES

VEHICLE

SIZE

TOP SPEED

HANDLING

(MPH)

TOUGHNESS

CREW COST



 CIVILIAN VEHICLES 

Bicycle

-1

+1

16

4

1

250

Notes: 50% chance a shot hits the rider instead. Doubles rider's Pace and running die result.

Carriage

3

-2

16

6

1+3

Notes: Pulled by one Horse, see page 184. Pace on the tabletop is 12 and it may run.

1­3K

Early Car

3

-1

40

Notes: Model Ts and the like.

7

1+3

1,000

Street Bike

1

+1

120

8

1+1

3,000

Notes: Stock name-brand street bikes designed for urban use. 50% chance any uncalled shot hits the character instead.

Dirt Bike

0

+1

80

7

1

2,000

Notes: Stock bike designed for off-road use with excellent shocks. Off Road (treat as 4WD). 50% chance any uncalled shot hits the character instead.

Compact Car

4 (Large)

+1

120

Notes: Honda Civic or similar vehicle.

10 (2)

1+3 5­14K

Mid-Sized Car

4 (Large)

0

120

Notes: Air bags, luxury features.

11 (2)

1+4

30K

Minivan

4 (Large)

0

90

12 (2)

Notes: Typical family mini-van. Air bags, some luxury features.

1+7

25K

Sports Utility Vehicle 5 (Large)

0

120

Notes: Luxury features, Four-Wheel Drive

14 (2)

1+7

50K

Sports Car

4 (Large)

+2

160

Notes: Mustang or similar stock sports cars.

10 (2)

1+3 15­300K

Semi-Truck

9 (Huge)

0*

75

14 (2)

1+1

Notes: Trailer is Size 7 (Large), Toughness 14 (2). *Handling with a trailer attached is ­2.

200K



 WORLD WAR II MILITARY VEHICLES 

Costs are in 1940s dollars and represent "war time" economies.

Jeep

4 (Large)

+1

65

10 (2)

Notes: Four-Wheel Drive. Weapons: Heavy MG (Front Pintle Mount)

2+3

1,000

M4 Sherman

8 (Huge)

-1

30

24 (8)

5

45K

Notes: Heavy Armor, Tracked. Weapons: 75mm tank gun (Turret, Stabilizer), Medium MG (Fixed front), Heavy MG (Pintle Mount on Turret).

M5A1 Stuart

7 (Large)

0

36

21 (7)

4

30K

Notes: Heavy Armor, Tracked. Weapons: 37mm tank gun (Turret, Stabilizer), Medium MG (Front Fixed), Heavy MG (Pintle Mount on Turret).

T-34/76

7 (Large)

-1

35

24 (8)

4

30K

Notes: Heavy Armor, Sloped Armor (front only), Tracked. Weapons: 76mm tank gun (Turret), Medium MG (Front Fixed and in Turret).

Pz IVJ

7 (Large)

-1

25

26 (10)

5

45K

Notes: Heavy Armor, Tracked. Weapons: 75mm gun (Turret), Medium MG (Front Fixed and in Turret).

Pz VI Tiger II

8 (Huge)

-2

25

34 (16)

5

120K

Notes: Heavy Armor, Tracked. Weapons: 88mm tank gun (Turret), Medium MG (Front Fixed and in Turret).

83

SAVAGE WORLDS

VEHICLE

SIZE

TOP SPEED

HANDLING

(MPH)

TOUGHNESS

CREW COST



 MODERN MILITARY VEHICLES 

M1A1 Abrams

9 (Huge)

-1

40

57 (37)

4

4M

Notes: Heavy Armor, Night Vision, Tracked. Weapons: 120mm tank gun (Imp Stabilizer), Medium

MG (Front Fixed and in Turret), Heavy MG (Pintle Mount on Turret).

M2 Bradley

7 (Large)

0

40

22 (6)

3+7

3M

Notes: Heavy Armor, Night Vision, Tracked. Weapons: 25mm Autocannon (Imp Stabilizer),

Medium MG (In Turret), TOW Launcher.

T-72 MBT

9 (Huge)

-1

50

43 (25)

3

1M

Notes: Heavy Armor, Tracked. Weapons: 125mm tank gun, Medium MG (In Turret), Heavy MG (Pintle Mount on Turret).

T-80 MBT

8 (Huge)

-1

43

52 (32)

3

2.2M

Notes: Heavy Armor, Night Vision, Tracked. Weapons: 125mm tank gun (Improved Stabilizer), Medium MG (In Turret), Heavy MG (Pintle Mount on Turret).

BTR 70 APC

6 (Large)

-1

49

20 (5)

2+8

700K

Notes: Amphibious, Four-Wheel Drive, Heavy Armor. Weapons: Heavy MG (Turret), Medium MG (Turret).



 FUTURISTIC MILITARY VEHICLES 

These vehicles reflect futuristic economies and advanced designs. The attached Gatling Lasers, for example,

gain Reaction Fire due to the attached power plant and managed weapon systems.

Hover Tank

7 (Large)

0

45

38 (22)

4

1.2M

Notes: Heavy Armor, Hover, Night Vision. Weapons: Heavy Laser (Turret, Improved Stabilizer), Gatling Laser (Fixed Front, Reaction Fire).

Hover APC

7 (Large)

0

75

26 (10)

2+14

75K

Notes: Heavy Armor, Hover. Weapons: Gatling Laser (Fixed Front, Reaction Fire).

AIRCRAFT

VEHICLE

SIZE

TOP SPEED

HANDLING

(MPH)

TOUGHNESS

CREW COST



CIVILIAN

Biplane

4 (Large)

+1

125

12 (1)

1

150K+

Cessna Skyhawk

5 (Large)

+1

140

12 (2)

1+3 150K+

Helicopter

7 (Large)

0

130

12 (2)

1+3 500K+

Learjet

8 (Huge)

+2

540

16 (2)

2+10 20M+

Space Shuttle

13 (Gar)

-1

17K

20 (4)

1+40 250M+



 WORLD WAR II MILITARY AIRCRAFT 

B-17 Flying Fortress 10 (Huge)

-2

115

19 (2)

10

250K

Weapons: 2× Linked Heavy MG (Fixed front), 2× Linked Heavy MG (Top Turret), 2× Linked Heavy MG (Ball Turret), Heavy MG (Fixed Left), Heavy MG (Fixed Right), Bombs.

BF-109

6 (Large)

+1

380

13 (2)

Weapons: 20mm Cannon (Fixed Front), 2× Linked Heavy MG (Fixed Front).

1

35K

P-51 Mustang

7 (Large)

+1

437

Weapons: 6× Heavy MG (Fixed Front)

14 (2)

1

50K

Japanese Zero

6 (Large)

+1

350

12 (2)

1

30K

Weapons: 2× Linked Medium MGs (Fixed Front), 2× Linked 20mm Cannons (Fixed Front)

Spitfire Mk IIA

6 (Large)

+1

360

Weapons: 8× Linked Medium MGs (Fixed Front).

14 (1)

1

40K

Use the Linked Weapon rules from page 82 to divide guns into the largest possible blocks. Roll the machine guns on a Mustang as three sets of two, for example, and a Spitfire as two sets of four.

84

Gear

VEHICLE

SIZE

TOP SPEED

HANDLING

(MPH)

TOUGHNESS

CREW COST



 MODERN MILITARY AIRCRAFT 

AH-64 Apache

8 (Huge)

0

225

20 (4)

2

35M

Notes: Helicopter, Night Vision. Weapons: 30mm Cannon (Fixed Front), 16× Hellfire Missiles

AV-8B Harrier

7 (Large)

+1

630

17 (3)

1

28M

Notes: ­1 Handling when in VTOL mode. Weapons: 25mm Cannon (Fixed Front), 2× Sidewinder Missiles, Bombs.

F-15 Eagle

9 (Huge)

+2

1,875

18 (4)

1

30M

Notes: Night Vision. Weapons: 20mm Cannon (Fixed Front), 4× Sidewinder Missiles, 4× Sparrow

Missiles, Bombs.

SU-27

9 (Large)

+1

1,550

16 (4)

1

30M

Notes: Night Vision. Weapons: 30mm Cannon (Fixed Front), 4× Sidewinder Missiles (Soviet equivalent).

UH-1 (Huey)

7 (Large)

+2

120

14 (2)

Notes: Helicopter. Weapons: Medium MG (Fixed Left or Right).

4+12 25M

WATERCRAFT

VEHICLE

SIZE

TOP SPEED

HANDLING

(MPH)

TOUGHNESS

CREW COST

Galleon

14 (Gar)

-2

9

20 (4)

Notes: Heavy Armor. Weapons: 16× to 46× Cannon (Fixed Left and Right).

20+80

Galley

13 (Gar)

-1

20

20 (4)

20+100

Notes: Heavy Armor. Has both oars and sails. Weapons: Catapult (Fixed Front).

300K+ 150K

Hydrofoil

10 (Huge)

0

70

15 (3)

1+9 400K+

Patrol Boat, River

7 (Large)

+1

32

15 (4)

4

$700K

Notes: Heavy Armor. Weapons: 2× Linked Heavy MG (Front Pintle Mount), 2× Medium (Left and Right), Heavy MG (Stern).

PT Boat (WW2)

12 (Gar)

+1

40

14 (2)

10 $250K

Notes: Heavy Armor. Weapons: 50 cal MG (Front Pintle Mount), Heavy MG (Rear Pintle Mount), 4× torpedo tubes (Fixed Forward).

Rowboat

0

-2

5

8 (1)

1+3

500

Speed Boat

4 (Large)

+1

90

10 (1)

1+3 60K+

Small Yacht

8 (Huge)

0

35

14 (2)

1+9 500K+

85

Chapter Three
Rules

Savage Worlds provides a simple framework for your tales of adventure and glory. In this chapter we show you how to make basic skill and attribute checks -- and make your combats Fast, Furious, and Fun!
Wild Cards & Extras
Your hero (a player character), and unique allies, villains, and monsters are collectively called "Wild Cards." These beings have a better chance at doing things, are a little tougher to put down, and are generally more detailed than common guards, minions, or lackeys--collectively called "Extras."
Wild Cards are noted with a design of some sort before their name, like this:
WRed
The actual Wild Card symbol varies and is usually themed for the particular setting, such as a skull-and-crossbones for a pirate game like 50 Fathoms or a marshal's badge in Deadlands.
Besides your own characters, it's up to the Game Master to decide which characters are Wild Cards. The sergeant of the City Watch probably isn't a Wild Card, but Sergeant Grimlock of the City Watch may be. Skytch the Dragon is also a Wild Card, though his three young wyrms aren't.
Wild Cards are those who have stepped up to do more than most. They dare, aspire, and risk it all to be a hero--or a villain!

They have two special abilities in the game:
· Wild Cards can take three Wounds before they're Incapacitated.
· Wild Cards roll a Wild Die (usually a d6) along with their Trait die when making Trait rolls and take the highest of the two as their total (see The Wild Die on the next page).
Trait Rolls
To make a skill or attribute "check" or "roll," simply roll the die assigned to it. If the result is a 4 or better (the "Target Number" or TN), the action is successful. For example, if a character's Strength is a d6, he rolls a sixsided die. On a 4 or better, he's successful.
Modifiers: Circumstances modify the die roll, such as shooting at something far away or finding a well-hidden clue. Some things, such as ranged attacks, have standard modifiers. It's up to the GM to determine any modifiers for more subjective tasks, such as spotting an ambush or eavesdropping on a conversation through a door.
In general, an easy task, such as finding tracks in the mud, is made at +2. A difficult task, such as finding tracks by torchlight, is made at -2. A very difficult task, such as finding tracks in a rainstorm, is made at -4.
Multiple Dice: When a character rolls multiple dice, such as when firing a machinegun, check each die separately.

87

SAVAGE WORLDS

The Wild Die

Opposed Rolls

Extras roll a single die when making a Trait Sometimes rolls are "opposed" by an

roll. Wild Cards roll an extra d6 and take the opponent. The attacker gets a Trait total, then

highest of their Trait die or the "Wild Die." the defender attempts to beat it.

Both of these dice can Ace (see below).

The exact skills or attributes used in a

One Wild Die Per Action: When Wild contest are specified in each circumstance,

Cards roll multiple dice for a single action, or the GM can decide what makes the most

such as when firing a machine gun, they roll sense. If two characters try to pull something

only one Wild Die.

from each other's hands, for example, they

The Wild Die may replace a Trait die or be ignored--it never adds another action or attack to the roll.
Example: Gabe has the Frenzy Edge (page 42). He rolls an extra Fighting die when making a melee attack along with a Wild Die. Only two of his dice can cause hits since the Wild Die can only replace a die, not add another attack.

make opposed Strength rolls. Sneaking up on someone is a Stealth roll opposed by Notice (which is detailed in the Stealth skill description).
The acting character in an opposed roll always gets his Trait total first (including spending any Bennies, see page 89), and must get at least a basic success (TN 4) or he fails. The defender rolls next and must meet or exceed the first character's result or the

Aces
All Trait and damage rolls in Savage Worlds are open-ended. That means that when you

attacker wins.
The winner also uses his opponent's total for purposes of determining raise effects.

roll the highest number possible on a die (a 6 on a d6, an 8 on a d8, and so on), you get to roll that die again and add it to the total. This is called an "Ace." Any modifiers to the die roll should be tacked on after adding up an Aced roll.

Critical Failures
A Critical Failure occurs when a Wild Card rolls a 1 on both the Trait die and Wild Die of a Trait roll. The attempt automatically fails and something bad happens -- a weapon is dropped or gets stuck, the attack hits a

Example: Red attempts to leap a dangerous ice friend, the vehicle crashes, spells misfire (see

chasm. She's a Wild Card with a d8 in Athletics, Backlash, page 151), and so on.

so she rolls a d8 and a d6 and takes the highest result. In this case, both dice Ace (8 on the d8 and 6 on the d6). She rolls the d8 again and gets a 4 for a total of 12. She rolls the d6 again and gets another 6, followed by a 2--that's a total of 14. Red leaps the chasm with ease...this time!

Critical Failures cannot be rerolled, even with Bennies (see the next page).
Extras and Critical Failures: If an Extra rolls a 1 on a Trait check and it's important to know if it's a Critical Failure, such as when casting a spell, roll a d6. On a 1, it's a Critical

Raises
Sometimes it's important to know just how successful a Trait roll was. Every 4 points over the Target Number is called a "raise." If your hero needs a 4 to shoot an opponent and rolls an 11, he hits with one raise (and would have two raises with a roll of 12). Figure raises after adjusting for any modifiers.

Failure. Otherwise it's just a normal failure.
Multiple Dice: Some abilities allow char acters to roll multiple Trait dice, such as the Frenzy Edge or firing a weapon with a Rate of Fire higher than 1. A Critical Failure with multiple dice occurs when more than half the die results are a natural 1. If the character is a Wild Card, the Wild Die must be a 1 as well.

A single raise always provides an additional effect of some sort, such as bonus damage when attacking or a benefit determined by the GM for other rolls.

Example: Gabe fires the auto-cannon of a hightech hovercraft. It has a Rate of Fire of 3 so he rolls three Shooting dice and one Wild Die. If three or more of the dice come up 1s, including the Wild Die, it's a Critical Failure.

88

Rules

Unskilled Attempts
If a character doesn't have a skill for an action he's attempting, he rolls a d4 for his skill die (and a Wild Die if a Wild Card) and subtracts 2 from the total.
The GM may decide certain tasks cannot be attempted unskilled, such as performing complex surgery or flying a commercial jet.
Reroll
Some Edges or abilities allow a character to reroll Traits (as long as they're not a Critical Failure). To do so, roll all the dice again and get a new total. You may keep any of the totals generated, so rerolls never make things worse unless you roll a Critical Failure. This ends all rerolls immediately and becomes the result of the attempt--that's the risk one takes in pushing the limits!
Multiple rerolls are allowed from different Edges, Bennies, or other abilities.
Group Rolls
When you want to make a Trait roll for a group of Extras with like Traits, roll one Trait die as usual along with a Wild Die and treat this as the group's result. This gives a decent average without making rolls for every individual.
Example: A group of soldiers attempts to slip through Gabe's sensors. The GM rolls their Stealth die (a d6) and a Wild Die and takes the best of the two as the soldiers' total.

Bennies
Every now and then, dice rolls may not work in your favor. That's why Savage Worlds gives players a little control over their hero's fate.
Player Character Bennies
Players start each game session with three "Bennies" (American slang for "benefits"), represented by poker chips, gaming stones, the official Bennies we make for all of our games, or other tokens that signify a little bit of good luck or fate.
Bennies are discarded at the end of each session--use them or lose them!
Bennies are awarded in two ways:
 AWARDS: The Game Master should occa sionally reward players for clever actions, roleplaying their character (especially any Hindrances), or a great feat of heroism.
She can also award players a Benny for telling a great story in character, delivering a fantastic line that makes everyone laugh, or creating an emotional moment.
 JOKER'S WILD: When a player character draws a Joker during combat, all player characters receive a Benny!
Game Master Bennies
Game Masters get Bennies too. At the start of each session, the GM gets one Benny for each player character. These may be used for any of his characters (including non-Wild Cards!) throughout the course of the game.
Each of the GM's Wild Cards has two Bennies (plus any from Edges such as Luck) when they appear in the game. They can use these or any of the Bennies in the common pool as the GM wishes, but can't share them without an Edge or ability that allows it.
Heroes get Bennies when they do some thing clever, roleplay, or are affected by their Hindrances in a scene. The GM doesn't reward "herself" when roleplaying her villains, but her characters do benefit from drawing Jokers in combat:
 JOKER'S WILD: Anytime the villains draw a Joker, put one Benny in their general pool and give another to each enemy Wild Card.

89

SAVAGE WORLDS

Using Bennies
Bennies may be spent at any appropriate time and don't incur any sort of penalty. They may only be used on your own character.
Here are the ways characters can use their Bennies.
 REROLL A TRAIT: Bennies grant a hero a reroll on any Trait, and best of all, you get to keep the best total from all your rolls. The only exception is a Critical Failure, which ends the attempt and must be accepted. Such is the price of tempting fate!
 RECOVER FROM SHAKEN: This is instant and may be done at any time, even interrupting another's actions if desired.
 SOAK ROLLS: Bennies can also be used to prevent Wounds or recover from being Shaken. See Soak Rolls on page 96 for more information.
 DRAW A NEW ACTION CARD: When the game is in rounds, a character can spend a Benny to get a new Action Card (see page 91). This occurs after all cards are dealt and Edges or Hindrances like Quick, Level Headed, or Hesitant are resolved. Then players or the GM may spend Bennies for an additional card as many times as they

like and take their choice of all their draws. Edges like Quick or Level Headed do not apply to these additional cards drawn with Bennies. This continues until everyone (including the GM) passes. Then the round begins and no further cards may be drawn.
 REROLL DAMAGE: You may spend a Benny to reroll damage. Include any additional dice you may have gained for a raise on the attack roll.
 REGAIN POWER POINTS: A character with an Arcane Background can spend a Benny to regain 5 Power Points (Power Points and their use are explained on page 147.)
 INFLUENCE THE STORY: This one is entirely up to the Game Master, who may allow your character to spend a Benny to find an additional clue if you're stuck, come up with some mundane but needed item, or push a nonplayer character into being a bit more agreeable.
Pwlhace"yoLnenretttshrettoyhelnehodaBvvteeeronanstluihiertsetpfglrleaomimsweeo!.r"yoeu --The G M

Awarding Bennies
It takes a few games to figure out how many Bennies you should award players during a session. In general, we recommend you be fairly free with them, especially early in the game. If someone makes everyone laugh (and isn't distracting the flow of the game), toss her a Benny. When someone roleplays a Hindrance, reward her. When someone does something clever or heroic or imaginative, acknowledge it with a Benny.
Some GMs worry the game will become too easy if Bennies are too common, but we find the opposite is true. When Bennies are plentiful, players often spend them on trivial things that are important to them. Maybe the thief really wants to pick the lock on a chest. There's nothing particularly valuable inside and the player probably knows it, but he's the thief and wants to prove himself to the rest of the party.
When Bennies are scarce, however, players tend to save them for injuries, death, or taking out the big bads. That's fine, but takes away from the fun and heroics that got them to this point. Savage Worlds is about big action and players should be encouraged to take chances. The "currency" of these chances are those Bennies.
Veteran Savage Worlds GMs might also notice Bennies tend to flow fairly fast early on in a session. The group is settling in, laughing, and are rewarded for roleplaying their Hindrances the first time or two. In the mid-to-late game, Bennies tend to be spent faster than they're gained. That's a fantastic pace. It gives the heroes opportunities to do big things in the early and mid-game then forces some resource management for the final showdown.
If you find yourself being stingy, go the other way the next time you run and see how it affects your group. Then you'll know what's right for you and your friends.
90

Rules

Combat
Whether they're the blood-soaked plains of Mars or the corpse-strewn battlefields of the distant past -- these are Savage Worlds and they are often violent. We recommend using miniatures or markers of some sort so players understand their surroundings and can use the terrain to their advantage. If miniatures aren't your thing, see the sidebar on page 97.
Distance: Because the game assumes you are using terrain or a battlemat and standard 28mm miniatures, movement and weapon ranges are listed in inches. To translate that to regular distance, one inch is equal to two yards.
If you're using miniatures and need to accommodate a larger battlefield, simply set each inch as five or 10 yards, for example, and adjust movement rates and the like appropriately.
Time: When a fight breaks out, game time breaks down into rounds of about six seconds each. Ten rounds, then, equals one minute.
 ROUND: A "round" is an entire countdown of Action Cards, from the Ace to the Deuce (Two).
 TURN: A character's "turn" occurs when his Action Card comes up in the countdown. A hero with the Six of Diamonds, for example, takes his turn when that card comes up in the round.

 ACTION: A single attack, skill use, etc. See page 92 for a more complete description. Characters may perform multiple actions on their turn (see Multi-Actions on page 103).
Action Cards (Initiative)
The action in Savage Worlds is fast and furious. To help the Game Master keep track of who goes in what order and add a little randomness to the game, we use a single deck of playing cards with both Jokers left in to determine everyone's initiative order. We call these "Action Cards."
The GM can deal cards face up or face down as she sees fit. She might also deal the players' cards face up and the villains face down to increase the players' tension and uncertainty!
At the start of each round:
· Deal each Wild Card a single Action Card (plus any extra cards for Edges). Allies under a player's control act on his Action Card.
· Extras, such as all zombies, all wolves, and so on, should usually share an Action Card so they act at the same time. This makes them much easier to manage. She can also group Wild Cards with their minions if she wants. The goal is to do whatever makes running the battle as quick and easy as possible.
Shuffle: Shuffle the deck after any round in which a Joker was dealt.

91

SAVAGE WORLDS

Large Groups: In very large groups or timesensitive games, the Game Master can deal a single card per side (heroes and villains). On the heroes' turn, simply start at one end of the group and work quickly around. This speeds things up dramatically if that's more important than varying initiative order. If one or more characters have Level Headed or Quick, apply that to the draw (but only once).
The Countdown
Once the cards are dealt, the Game Master starts the round by counting down from Ace down to Two, with each group resolving its actions when its card comes up.
Ties: Ties are resolved by suit order: Spades
are first, then Hearts , Diamonds , and Clubs . That's reverse alphabetical order as
used in many common card games.
 JOKERS: Characters (or groups) with a Joker act whenever they want in the round, even interrupting another's action. They also add +2 to all Trait and damage rolls this round!
Actions
Characters perform "actions" when their Action Card comes up each round. A character can move and perform one regular action at any point in their movement without penalty. Movement is not an action (see Movement, below).
Characters can choose from a multitude of actions on their turn. Common actions include Supporting allies, Testing foes, using a power, or attacking with Fighting or Shooting. See Multi-Actions on page 103 to perform more than one action per turn.
More complex actions like lighting a torch or digging through a backpack for a small item might require a set or random amount of time (such as 1d6 rounds--GM's call).
Free Actions
Speaking a short sentence or two, resisting an enemy's spell, falling prone, or dropping an item are all free actions. A hero can generally perform several free actions on her turn simultaneously (speaking and dropping an item while walking, for example). The GM must decide how much is too much.
Some free actions occur automatically at the beginning of a character's turn and may

only be tried once, such as recovering from being Shaken or Stunned.
Free actions that are "reactions," such as resisting opposed rolls or powers, are unlimited and occur each time the situation presents itself.
Limited Actions and Limited Free Actions
Some actions are more restricted. A character may only perform one limited action on their turn. For example, a giant octopus can attack with all its tentacles as a limited action, but it can't use Sweep as well.
A character may also perform one limited free action per turn. For example, if an item allows a character to teleport as a limited free action, he may not perform another limited free action, but may still use a limited action.
Movement
In addition to their actions, characters can move a number of tabletop inches equal to their Pace each turn.
Each inch of movement spent climbing, crawling, or swimming uses 2 of Pace.
Running: A hero can choose to "run," increasing her Pace for the round by her Running die (a d6 by default) at the cost of a -2 penalty to all actions that turn. Running dice never Ace. (The Running die is random to account for nuances of the situation not depicted on the tabletop and for the "risk to reward" decision players must make.)
Out of combat situations, a character can move twice the sum of her full Pace + maximum running die for a number of minutes equal to half her Vigor die type. Thus a Fleet-Footed character with Vigor d6 can sprint at a Pace of 32 for three minutes.
Difficult Ground: Each inch a hero walks or runs over rough terrain such as thick forest, up or down a steep incline, slippery ice, etc., count as 2 of her Pace. Crawling is unaffected by Difficult Ground.
Hazards: If the GM feels movement is hazardous for some reason--climbing under duress, swimming a fast-moving river, walking a tightrope -- she can require an Athletics roll to move. Success means she continues on normally. With a Critical Failure the character takes Fatigue from Bumps &

92

Rules

Bruises (page 125), falls if climbing or in a Extreme Range: Extreme Range is up to 4×

precarious position (Falling, page 127), or a weapon's Long Range. Firing at such a great

drowns if swimming (Drowning, page 126). distance requires the Aim option (page 97).

Other Movement Issues

When used in this way, Aim doesn't reduce any penalties -- it simply allows the character

 JUMPING: Characters can jump 1 (two to fire at such a great distance. The penalty is

yards) horizontally, or 0.5 vertically as a -8, or -6 with a scope (page 68).

free action. Double these numbers if the hero can run at least 2 (four yards) prior to the jump. If the hero chooses, she may make an Athletics roll as an action to increase her horizontal distance by 1 (2 with a raise), or half that vertically. Jumping does not allow a hero to exceed her Pace for the turn.
 PRONE: A character may fall prone as a free action during her turn. She may crawl while prone. Standing is a free action but reduces total Pace for the turn by 2.

Characters may not throw weapons at Extreme Range.
Rate of Fire: Rate of Fire is how many shots (Shooting dice) a ranged weapon can fire in one action. A pistol with a RoF of 1, for example, can fire one shot per action. A machine gun with a Rate of Fire of 3 can fire three shots per action (10 actual bullets, see below).
For weapons with a Rate of Fire of 2 or higher, declare how many shots you're

Attacks

putting into each possible target. Then roll that number of Shooting dice and assign

The basics of fast, furious combat are them in whatever order you like to the targets discussed below. Many additional options you declared.

and situations are covered under Situational Wild Cards roll their Shooting dice plus a

Rules, starting on page 97.

Wild Die, which can be assigned wherever

Melee Attacks

they like after seeing the result of the roll. They still can't hit with more shots than the

The Target Number to hit an opponent is weapon's Rate of Fire, however.

equal to the opponent's Parry score (2 plus half his Fighting die type; 2 if he has no Fighting skill).

A Rate of Fire higher than 1 is an abstract value where each "shot" is actually a number of bullets. If you're tracking bullets, use the

Ranged Attacks
The Shooting skill covers everything from bows to pistols to rocket launchers and fixed

table below and whatever Rate of Fire the character actually fires in an action, not the weapon's maximum.

machine guns. Throwing grenades, knives, BULLETS PER RATE OF FIRE

spears, or other thrown projectiles uses the Athletics skill.
All ranged weapons have a Range statistic written like this: 5/10/20, or Short/Medium/

RATE OF FIRE 1 2

BULLETS FIRED 1 5

Long Range.

3

10

The base Target Number to hit something

4

20

at Short Range is 4. Firing at longer ranges

5

40

inflicts the penalties listed below.

6

50

RANGE PENALTIES

RANGE

MODIFIER

Short

--

Medium

-2

Long

-4

Extreme (see notes)

-8

Recoil: Firing more than one shot in one action from a weapon subtracts 2 from the attacker's Shooting rolls (see Recoil, page 105).
Unless a weapon says otherwise, a shooter can fire less shots than his weapon's maximum Rate of Fire.

93

SAVAGE WORLDS

Damage
After a successful melee or ranged hit, the attacker rolls damage. Ranged weapons do fixed damage as listed in the Gear section. Most pistols, for example, cause 2d6 damage.
Hand weapons cause damage equal to the attacker's Strength die plus a second die, which depends on the weapon. A barbarian with a d12 Strength and a long sword (d8 damage) rolls d12 + d 8 damage.
Even though Strength is used to determine melee damage, this isn't a Trait roll so Wild Cards don't add a Wild Die to the roll.
All damage rolls can Ace.
Unarmed Damage: An unarmed combatant rolls only his Strength die unless he has an Edge like Brawler (page 41) or Martial Artist (page 43) that grants him a damage die.
Bonus Damage
Well-placed attacks are more likely to hit vital areas, and so do more damage. If your hero gets a raise on his attack roll (regardless of how many raises), he adds +1d6 to the final total. Bonus dice can also Ace!
Bonus damage applies to all attacks, including spells and area effect weapons.

Applying Damage
If the damage roll is less than the target's Toughness, the victim is beaten up a bit but there's no game effect. If the damage is equal to or greater than his Toughness, he's Shaken. Each raise on the damage roll also inflicts a Wound:
 SUCCESS: The character is Shaken. If he was already Shaken and the second result is from physical damage of some kind (not a Test that results in Shaken, for example), he remains Shaken and takes a Wound.
 RAISE: The character suffers a Wound for every raise on the damage roll, and is Shaken.
Damage Effects
Damage can result in three effects: Shaken, Wounds, and Incapacitation.
Shaken
Shaken characters are nicked, bruised, or otherwise rattled. They may only take free actions, such as moving (including running). At the start of their turn, Shaken characters must attempt to recover from being Shaken by making a Spirit roll. This is a free action.
 FAILURE: The character remains Shaken. She can only perform free actions.
 SUCCESS: The character is no longer Shaken and may act normally.

More on Shaken
Shaken and Wounds can be a little confusing to new players. Here's a table that might help.

DAMAGE
Success (0­3 points of damage over Toughness)
1 Raise (4­7 points of damage over Toughness)
2 Raises (8­11 points of damage over Toughness)
3 Raises (12­15 points of damage over Toughness)

VICTIM IS UNSHAKEN Shaken
1 Wound and Shaken 2 Wounds and Shaken 3 Wounds and Shaken

VICTIM IS ALREADY SHAKEN 1 Wound and remains Shaken 1 Wound and remains Shaken 2 Wounds and remains Shaken 3 Wounds and remains Shaken

EXAMPLES:
· Red takes a Wound. She's also Shaken. · Red is Shaken, then takes a Wound. She has one Wound and remains Shaken. · Red is already Shaken, then Shaken again (without a Wound). She now has one Wound
and remains Shaken. · Red has two Wounds and is Shaken. She takes another Wound, so she has three Wounds
and remains Shaken.

94

INJURY TABLE

2D6 WOUND

2

Unmentionables: If the injury is permanent, reproduction is out of the question without miracle surgery or magic. There is no other effect from this result.

3­4 Arm: The victim can no longer use his left or right arm (rolled randomly if not targeted).

Guts: Your hero catches one in the core. Roll 1d6:

5­9

1­2Broken: Agility reduced a die type (minimum d4). 3­4Battered: Vigor reduced a die type (minimum d4).

5­6Busted: Strength reduced a die type (minimum d4).

10­11 Leg: Gain the Slow Hindrance (Minor), or Major if already Slow or injured in either leg.

Head: A grievous injury to the head. Roll 1d6:

1­3 Hideous Scar: Your hero now has the Ugly (Major) Hindrance.

12

4­5Blinded: An eye is damaged. Gain the One Eye Hindrance (or the Blind Hindrance if

he only had one good eye).

6 Brain Damage: Massive trauma to the head. Smarts reduced one die type (min d4).

Rules

Spending Bennies: A player may spend a Benny at any time to remove her Shaken status (even when it's not her turn).
Wounds
Every raise on the damage roll inflicts a Wound. Extras are Incapacitated if they take a single Wound (and aren't Resilient, see page 178). They're dead, injured, or otherwise out of the fight.
Wild Cards can take three Wounds and still function (more with certain Edges or abilities). Further damage doesn't cause additional Wounds but Incapacitates them instead.
Wound Penalties: Each Wound a character suffers causes a -1 cumulative penalty to his Pace (minimum of 1) and all Trait rolls--up to a maximum penalty of -3.
Timing: Characters sometimes take multi ple hits on the same Action Card. Resolve each damage roll separately and completely before moving on to the next (including any Soak rolls).
Incapacitation
Incapacitated characters may not perform actions but are still dealt Action Cards for the remainder of the encounter in case they recover or must roll for other effects such as Bleeding Out (below). Edges or Hindrances that affect card draws, such as Quick, Level Headed, or Hesitant are ignored when the hero is Incapacitated.

If Incapacitated by damage or injury, he must make an immediate Vigor roll:
 CRITICAL FAILURE: The character dies.
 FAILURE: Roll on the Injury Table. The Injury is permanent and the character is Bleeding Out, see below.
 SUCCESS: Roll on the Injury Table. The Injury goes away when all Wounds are healed.
 RAISE: Roll on the Injury Table. The Injury goes away in 24 hours, or when all Wounds are healed (whichever is sooner).
Characters cannot take actions and might be unconscious (GM's call). The victim makes a Vigor roll each day thereafter and is no longer Incapacitated (or unconscious) if successful. They may also heal Wounds during this time (see Natural Healing on page 96).
Bleeding Out: The injured character is dying and must make a Vigor roll at the start of his turn. Failure means he perishes. With success he survives but must roll again next turn (or every minute if not in combat). With a raise, he stabilizes and no further rolls are required.
Other characters may stop a victim's bleeding by making a Healing roll. This is an action, and if successful the patient is stabilized.
The healing power can also stabilize Wounds, as can a successful "natural" healing roll by a being with regeneration of some sort.
Incapacitation from Fatigue: See page 100.

95

SAVAGE WORLDS

Soak Rolls
After rolling damage but before applying wounds, a character may spend a Benny to make a "Soak" roll. This is a Vigor check, with each success and raise reducing the number of Wounds suffered from that attack by one.
If the character Soaks all of the Wounds from an attack, he removes his Shaken condition too (even from a previous source). Don't count the Wound modifiers he's about to suffer when making this roll--that hasn't happened yet.
Characters can't Soak more than once per attack, but may spend Bennies as usual to reroll the Vigor check if they aren't satisfied with the results.
Shaken: A character can also spend a Benny to immediately eliminate a Shaken condition. This can be done at any time.

The Golden Hour: A character may only attempt to heal Wounds on a patient once within the hour they were sustained. Failing the roll means the healer isn't able to treat those particular injuries. A different character may attempt a Healing roll on the same patient, however.
Once the Wounds are over an hour old, only natural healing or the healing power (using greater healing) can heal Wounds.
Bleeding Out: The Healing skill can also be used to stabilize someone who's Bleeding Out (page 95). Each attempt is an action, and if successful the victim is stabilized.
Incapacitation: Healing at least one Wound on an Incapacitated patient removes that state (and restores consciousness if he was knocked out).
Natural Healing

Healing

Wounded characters make a Vigor roll every five days. Success recovers one Wound, and a raise recovers two.

The Healing skill is used to remove Wounds. Each attempt requires 10 minutes per wound level of the patient. Subtract 1 from Healing rolls without a basic First Aid kit or similar supplies.
A success removes one Wound, and a raise removes two. Failure means no Wounds are removed. A Critical Failure increases the victim's Wound level by one.

A Critical Failure increases the victim's Wound level by one -- either from infection, blood loss, or aggravating the injuries. If this causes Incapacitation, don't use the usual rules for taking damage. Instead, the victim lapses in and out of consciousness and makes a Vigor roll every 12 hours. If the roll is failed, he expires. Success means he must roll again 12 hours later. With a raise he stabilizes and wakes. Allies may also attempt to stabilize the hero as explained under Bleeding Out, above.

The Golden Hour
Patients who survive their initial trauma have about an hour to survive most life-threatening injuries. If they receive medical attention during that time, they can generally be saved. The longer the wait, however, the more likely the Wounds are to be fatal.
In Savage Worlds, we extend this concept to healing in general. Besides reflecting the real-world concept, it also provides good game balance and drama as the party has to decide whether to press on despite their injuries.

Support: Don't forget to use Support when your party has been beaten up a bit. Characters with Healing, Survival, or other skills can make Support rolls to help allies make their Vigor rolls to heal!
Aftermath & Extras
If it's important to know what happens to Extras who were Incapacitated during a fight, make a Vigor roll for each. Those who succeed survive and must be cared for, taken prisoner, or released. This can present interesting challenges for your heroes in the aftermath of savage combat!

96

Rules

Situational Rules
The core Savage Worlds rules are very simple -- roll a skill die (and a Wild Die if a Wild Card). If the result is 4 or higher after all modifiers, you're successful.
In the following section are some of the more elaborate options and maneuvers characters can attempt.
Aim
Shooting rolls assume a character is moving about, dodging attacks, and keeping an eye on the chaos around her. If she focuses her attention and aims, however, she can make a much more accurate shot.
If a character spends her entire turn Aiming a ranged weapon at a particular target and takes no other actions, on her next turn she may ignore up to 4 points of Range, Cover, Called Shot, Scale, or Speed penalties; or add +2 to her roll. Her attack must be used on the first action of her next turn or the bonus is lost.
The shooter must be "stationary" to Aim. She can't walk, run, ride a horse, or otherwise move under her own power. She could Aim from a vehicle traveling over or through a smooth surface, or one using the Hold Steady Chase maneuver (see page 116).
Area Effect Attacks
Grenades, spell effects, breath weapons, and other attacks that cover a large area are "area effect attacks." The most common are Small, Medium, and Large Blast Templates, and the Cone and Stream Templates. There are copies you can print out on our website and we make sturdy cardstock versions as well.
Area effect weapons target a location rather than individuals and so ignore defensive bonuses for specific targets covered by the template, such as the Dodge Edge or speed penalties.
Cone templates are placed with the small end emanating from the attacker and fired with the Shooting skill (or Athletics for breath weapons and other natural attacks). Any power or other effect that uses a Cone Template may use the Stream Template

instead. This is a straight line 1" (2 yards) wide and 12" (24 yards) long. A basic success means those beneath the template are hit. Failure means the attack didn't occur for some reason--the creature failed to belch up noxious gas, the flamethrower malfunctioned, etc.
To attack with a blast template, the player places the template on the tabletop (or describes where he wants it to land) and rolls Shooting, or Athletics for thrown weapons and breath attacks. If the attack fails and there's a chance it might deviate and hit someone else, see Deviation, below.
If the roll is successful, any target even partially beneath the template is affected, regardless of any attack penalties to hit such as the Dodge Edge. If the effect causes damage, roll for each victim separately. Attacks that hit with a raise cause bonus damage as usual.
Deviation
If an attack with a Cone Template fails, it goes over the targets' heads, hits the ground, or simply falters for some reason. The GM may still decide the attack affects the area around it -- perhaps a flamethrower sets a room on fire or a gas canister spews a cloud of gas -- but there's no game effect on characters or other targets this time.

Templates Without Miniatures
Use the measurements below when you need to figure out how many enemies a template might affect.
The GM can also use the Targets Affected column to determine how many enemies are hit in narrative situations, modifying the results if the targets are more spread out (highly trained agents) or bunched up (a horde of zombies).

TEMPLATE Small
Medium Large Cone
Stream

DIAMETER
4 yards
8 yards
12 yards
18-yard-long cone
24-yard-long 2-yard-wide

TARGETS AFFECTED
2 3 4
3
3

97

SAVAGE WORLDS

If a blast template misses, it deviates 1d6 for thrown weapons (such as grenades) and 2d6 for fired projectiles. Multiply by 2 if the attack was made at Medium Range, 3 if Long, and 4 for Extreme.
Next roll a d12 and read it like a clock facing to determine the direction the missile deviates. A weapon can never deviate more than half the distance to the original target (that keeps it from going behind the thrower).
Cover & Area Effect Attacks
Solid obstacles like trees or brick walls protect against area effect attacks if they're between the origin of the blast and the GM reasonably thinks they'd apply. Reduce the damage by the amount listed on the Cover Bonus table under Cover & Obstacles, page 99.
Bound & Entangled

Breaking Things
Occasionally a character may want to break a solid object, such as a weapon, lock, or door. Use the wielder's Parry if held, or 2 if it's motionless. If a damage roll equals or exceeds the object's Hardness, it's broken, bent, shattered, or otherwise ruined. The GM decides the exact effect.
Most anything can be broken given enough time and effort, so use this system only when attempting to break things in a hurry (such as during combat rounds).

OBJECT HARDNESS

HARDNESS OBJECT

8

Door, Light

10

Door, Heavy

8

Lock

Grappling and powers like entangle cause characters to be Bound and Entangled. Here's what each of those states means and how to break free from them.
 ENTANGLED: The victim can't move and is Vulnerable as long as he remains Entangled.
 BOUND: The victim may not move, is Distracted and Vulnerable as long as he remains Bound, and cannot make physical actions other than trying to break free.
Breaking Free: Attempting to break free is an action using Strength at -2 or Athletics. With success, an Entangled hero is free of one entanglement or grappler. A Bound character improves to Entangled with a success; with a raise, he's free.
Breaking Free from a Device: A character bound by a physical device (such as a net, manacles, or handcuffs) who fails to break free can't try again until the situation changes in some way (GM's call).
Bound or Entangled victims may try to destroy the entanglement with an accessible and appropriate weapon (GM's call based on circumstances and the entangling material). Weapon attacks hit automatically (see Breaking Things), and attackers may Wild Attack for +2 damage. If successful the character is no longer Entangled (others in an area effect entanglement must be freed separately unless the attack is an area effect itself).

9

Firearm (pistol or rifle)

12

Handcuffs

10

Knife, Sword

10

Medieval Shield*

12

Modern Shield*

4

Net, Rope, Webs

*A character must specifically state he's trying to break a shield to do so--don't check every time the shield-bearer is hit.
No Bonus Damage or Aces: Attacks against solid objects don't get bonus damage from raises, and damage rolls don't Ace. Unlike a person or complex device like a computer or a vehicle, an attack can't hit a "vital" area on a lock or a door and thus do more damage.
Damage Types: Certain types of attacks can't break certain types of objects. A club can't cut a rope, for example, and a single bullet won't destroy a door. Use common sense when determining whether or not a particular type of weapon can destroy an object. See Cover & Obstacles to attack through barriers.

Called Shots
Targeting a particular part of the body is a Called Shot. The modifier to the attack roll depends on the Scale of the target itself (not the creature it's part of). Use the Scale Modifiers table on page 106 to determine any

98

bonus or penalty for the target's Scale. These modifiers are already listed in parentheses below for Normal scale creatures, along with any specific game effects:
 HAND (-4): Target may be Disarmed, see page 100.
 HEAD OR VITALS (-4): Hitting the head or vital organs of living creatures adds +4 damage to the attacker's total.
The penalty is -5 if attempting to target the face of someone wearing an openfaced helmet (thus bypassing the helmet's Armor).
 ITEM (?): Use the dimensions on the Scale table for items. Targeting something the size of a pistol, for example, is -4; a 3' long sword is -2.
 LIMBS (-2): Hitting a limb has no additional special effect since it's already accounted for by Wound and Pace penalties (see Wounds, page 95).
 UNARMORED AREA (?): The attack targets the unprotected area of a target otherwise covered in Armor. The penalty depends on the Scale of the area. The eyeslit of a helmet is Tiny (-6), for example, while the flesh beneath the missing scale of a Huge dragon might be Very Small (-4).
Cover & Obstacles

Cover modifier and the GM thinks the target is likely to be hit, the obstacle acts as Armor.
If the obstacle is a person or creature, subtract its Toughness from the attack. Use the table below as a guide for other materials.

BONUS
+2
+4 +6 +8 +10

COVER BONUS
OBSTACLE
Heavy glass, thick leather, drywall, wooden shield, aluminum car door Sheet metal, steel car door Oak door, cinder block wall Brick wall Stone wall, bulletproof glass, tree

Defend
A character can choose to focus all her energy and skill into defense against melee attacks with the Defend maneuver. This increases her Parry by +4 and takes her entire turn -- she cannot perform Multi-Actions. She may move normally but may not run. The bonus lasts until the beginning of her next turn.

"C over

is

your

fr

iend." --R

e

d

" So

is

full

-auto." --G

abe

Melee and ranged attacks suffer a penalty when attempting to hit a target behind Cover, per the table below:

Rules

Obstacles
Sometimes characters have sufficient power to attack their foes through obstacles. (See Breaking Things to actually destroy intervening obstacles.) If a missed attack would have been successful without the

COVER PENALTIES

PENALTY COVER

-2

Light Cover: A quarter of the target is obscured.

-4

Medium Cover: Half the target is obscured, or target is prone.

-6

Heavy Cover: Three-quarters of the target is obscured.

-8

Near Total Cover: The target is barely visible.

99

SAVAGE WORLDS

Desperate Attack

it in other situations as she sees fit (a sniper attacking an unaware and stationary target).

Desperate attacks are frantic efforts to hit a target at the expense of damage. The attacker adds +2 or +4 to any Fighting roll and subtracts a like amount from damage if he hits. This can be determined per attack (before rolling), and can't be combined with Wild Attack.
Disarm
A character can try to make an opponent drop a weapon (or other object) or attempt to damage it, by making a melee or ranged attack.
The attacker must first hit the object or the opponent's limb or hand (see Called Shots on page 98).

The Drop adds +4 to a character's attack and damage rolls against that target for one action.
Knockout Blow: If a character takes enough damage to be Shaken or worse from an attacker with The Drop on him, he must make a Vigor roll (at -2 if the attack was to the head) or be knocked unconscious.
KO'ed characters stay that way for about half an hour or until the GM decides it's dramatically appropriate to wake up. Note that Knockout Blows come from any kind of damage, not just blows to the head!
Evasion

If the attack hits the weapon, the attacker rolls damage normally for an item (no raise effect or Aces, see Breaking Things, page 98). The defender must make a Strength roll equal to the damage or drop the item.
If the attack is against the wielder and Shakes or Wounds him, the defender must make a Strength roll at -2 if it hit his limb, or -4 if it hit his hand, plus any Wound penalties that result as usual. Failure means he drops whatever item is in that hand.
Distracted & Vulnerable

Some attacks are slow or require the user to "telegraph" their delivery, like flamethrowers or dragon's breath. Such attacks state they may be "evaded." If an attack doesn't say it can be evaded, it can't -- victims are simply hit if the attack is successful and take damage.
If an attack can be evaded and the character is aware of it, he makes an Agility roll at -2. Those who are successful manage to avoid the attack and take no damage. If this was an area effect attack, the GM should place the figure to the side or rear of the template as makes sense in the situation.

Characters may be Distracted or made Vulnerable by Tests, powers, or creature effects. Both states last until the end of the character's next turn. If a hero becomes Distracted or Vulnerable during her current turn, it lasts until the end of her next turn.
 DISTRACTED: The hero subtracts 2 from all Trait rolls until the end of his next turn.
 VULNERABLE: Actions and attacks against the target are made at +2 until the end of his next turn. This doesn't stack with The Drop (see below) --use only the highest.
The Drop
Sometimes an attacker is able to catch a foe off-guard and gets "The Drop" on him. The GM decides when this is in effect -- usually it's when the victim is bound or completely unaware of an attack. The Drop usually happens up close but the GM can also allow

Fatigue
Some hazards, stress, powers, or circum stances may cause Fatigue instead of damage. This represents mental stress or minor but lingering injuries that make a person less effective. Fatigue stacks until the victim is Incapacitated.
 FATIGUED: The victim subtracts 1 from all Trait rolls. If he takes another level of Fatigue, he's Exhausted.
 EXHAUSTED: The victim subtracts 2 from all Trait rolls. If he takes another level of Fatigue, he's Incapacitated.
 INCAPACITATED: The victim cannot perform actions and may be unconscious (GM's call).
Recovery
Unless otherwise specified by the source, Fatigue and Exhaustion improve one level per hour. Incapacitated characters are helpless

100

Rules

and may be unconscious (GM's call) for 2d6 hours. If treatment is possible (food, water, etc., depending on the source of Fatigue), and a Healing roll is made, the character improves to Exhausted.
Mixed Fatigue: If a hero suffers Fatigue from different sources with different recovery times, remove one level when the effect with the shortest duration expires, then another level when the longest expires.
Hazards
Fatigue from hunger, thirst, etc., sometimes has different recovery conditions. See Hazards, starting on page 125.
Finishing Move
A completely helpless victim may be dispatched with a lethal weapon of some sort as an action. This is automatic unless the GM decides there's a special situation, such as a particularly tough or naturally armored victim, a chance for escape, and so on.
The killer must usually dispatch his foe up close and personal, but the GM may occasionally let Finishing Moves be performed at range if the situation warrants.
Firing Into Melee
Occasionally heroes have to fire into the middle of hand-to-hand fights. The trouble is that even though we might see figures standing perfectly still on the tabletop, in "reality," they're circling each other, wrestling back and forth, and moving erratically. For that reason, firing into a tangle of people, such as a melee, is quite dangerous. Use the Innocent Bystander rules when this occurs (see page 102).
Free Attacks
Some Edges, such as Counterattack and First Strike, or options such as Withdrawing from Melee, allow a character to make a free attack.
Free attacks are a single attack unaltered by the attacker's other Edges or combat options. This is usually a Fighting or grappling attack, but could include Shooting if the attacker is armed with a pistol or other ranged weapon that can fire in melee (see Ranged Weapons in Melee, page 104).

Ganging Up
Ganging up allows attackers to flank, exploit openings, and generally harass a foe. Each additional adjacent foe (who isn't Stunned) adds +1 to all the attackers' Fighting rolls, up to a maximum of +4. If three goblins attack a single hero, for example, each of the three goblins add+2 to their Fighting rolls.
Each ally adjacent to the defender cancels out one point of Gang Up bonus from an attacker adjacent to both. This means troops in opposing lines, such as a medieval formation where each man has three adjacent foes and two adjacent allies, don't get the bonus unless actually flanked.
Grappling
Grappling is an opposed roll between the attacker and defender's Athletics. If the attacker wins, the foe is Entangled. With a raise, he's Bound. (Success on a foe who was already Entangled makes him Bound.) Bound & Entangled are explained on page 98.
If a foe is Bound, the grappler is also Vulnerable while maintaining his hold.
The Gang Up bonus applies when grappling a defender, but other maneuvers don't unless the Game Master rules otherwise in a specific situation.
Size Matters: If there's a difference in Scale between the attacker and defender, the grappler subtracts the difference from his total (the defender does not).
Creatures may not generally grapple a foe more than two Sizes larger than themselves unless they have exceptional reach or Strength for their Size (GM's call).
Example: A dragon (Huge +4) tries to pin a half-folk thief (Normal). The difference between Huge and Normal Scales is 4, so the dragon must subtract 4 from its Athletics roll.
If an ogre (Normal) tries to wrestle a great white shark (Large +2), he must subtract 2 from his roll.
Crush: As an action, a grappler may make a Strength roll as damage against a target he has Entangled or Bound. (This is a damage roll so Scale modifiers are ignored.)

101

SAVAGE WORLDS

Hold
A hero may choose to wait and see what happens by going on "Hold." This allows her to resolve her turn later in the round if she wishes, and lasts until it's used. If a character is on Hold when a new round begins, she's not dealt a new Action Card but can go at any point in the round she chooses. (Discard her current card and mark her as "On Hold" with a counter of some sort.)
Shaken and Stunned: If a character is Shaken or Stunned while on Hold, she immediately loses her Hold status and her turn for the round. (Shaken or Stunned characters can't go on Hold either.)
Interrupting Actions: If a character on Hold wants to interrupt an action (including a rival who was also on Hold), she and the opponent make opposed Athletics rolls. Whoever rolls highest goes first. In the rare case of a tie, the actions are simultaneous.
If the character interrupting fails, she loses her Hold status but gets a turn after the foe finishes his. She may take whatever actions she wishes when her turn comes up -- she's not locked into whatever she was trying to do when she failed to interrupt.
Illumination
Darkness conceals details and makes it more difficult to detect objects and targets. Subtract the following penalties from rolls affected by Illumination, such as attacks, Notice rolls, the use of powers, etc.
Improvised Weapons
Heroes often fight with objects that aren't intended for use as weapons. Torches, vases, chairs, tankards, bottles, tools, and other mundane items are frequently pressed into service in combat.

Characters with improvised weapons count as armed but subtract 2 from attack rolls. Range, damage and Minimum Strength are determined by type:
 LIGHT: Metal beer stein, fist-sized rock, pistol (as a club). Range 3/6/12, Damage Str+d4, Min Str d4.
 MEDIUM: Bowling ball, submachine gun (as a club), wooden chair. Range 2/4/8, Damage Str+d6, Min. Str d6.
 HEAVY: Head-size rock, metal chair, duffel bag full of guns. Range 1/2/4, Damage Str+d8, Min. Str d8.
The GM can adjust the damage down a level or two if the item is softer than the examples above, like a duffel bag full of money.
Innocent Bystanders
When an attacker misses a Shooting or Athletics (throwing) roll, it may sometimes be important to see if any other targets in the line of fire were hit. The GM should only use this rule when it's dramatically appropriate -- not for every missed shot in a hail of gunfire.
Each skill die that's a 1 hits a random victim adjacent to or directly in the line of fire to the original target. Wild dice never hit innocent bystanders.
A Wild Card must miss with his Wild Die for a RoF 1 weapon to hit an Innocent Bystander (except for shotguns, see below).
This means it's sometimes easier to hit an adjacent victim than the original target. That may not be entirely realistic, but is simple, dramatic, and requires some care in tight tactical situations.
 ROF 2 + OR SHOTGUN: Weapons that spray bullets or buckshot are much more likely to hit others. Each skill die that rolls a 1 or a 2 hits a bystander.

ILLUMINATION PENALTIES

PENALTY LIGHTING

-2

Dim: Twilight, light fog, night with a full moon.

Dark: Typical night conditions with some ambient light from stars, a clouded or partial

-4

moon, emergency lights in an office building, a few flickering torches in a large space, etc.

Targets aren't visible outside of 10.

-6

Pitch Darkness: Complete and total darkness (or the target is hidden or invisible). Powers that require sight may not be possible.

102

Rules

Mounted Combat
Characters fighting from horseback (or other strange beasts) have certain advantages and disadvantages in combat, as described below.
Mounts aren't dealt Action Cards -- they act with their riders. Animals may attack any threat to their front during their rider's action.
Horsemanship: Characters who wish to fight from horseback must use the lowest of their Fighting or Riding skills. This makes it important for cavalrymen to actually be able to ride well!
Falling: If a character is Shaken, Stunned, or Wounded while mounted, or his mount is Incapacitated, he must make a Riding roll. If he fails, he falls. If the mount was running (GM's call), the rider suffers 2d4 damage (2d6 with a Critical Failure).
Missed Ranged Attacks: Mounts and riders are affected by the Innocent Bystander rules. If a shot intended at a rider rolls a 1, it hits the horse instead.
Wounded Mounts: When an animal is Shaken or Wounded, it rears or bucks. A rider must make a Riding roll to stay mounted, or falls as above.
Charging
A rider on a charging horse adds +4 to his damage roll with a successful Fighting attack. To be considered charging, the rider must

have moved at least 6 or more in a relatively straight line toward his foe.
Setting Weapons: A weapon with a Reach of 1 or greater can be "set" against a cavalry attack. To do so, the attacker must be on Hold and win an opposed Athletics roll to interrupt as usual. Whoever has the most Reach adds +2 to his roll.
The winner attacks first. If successful, he adds the +4 charge bonus to his damage (whether he's the rider or not).
Multi-Actions
Characters can perform up to three actions on their turn. Each additional action beyond the first inflicts a -2 penalty to all actions. Taking two actions, for example, incurs a -2 penalty to both, and three actions is a -4 penalty.
Wild Cards get their Wild Die on each action as usual.
All actions must be declared at the start of the turn and before any dice are rolled. Penalties remain even if a later action doesn't happen (usually because it was dependent on an earlier success).
Movement and Multiple Actions: A chara cter may perform multiple actions at different points in his movement.
Free Actions: Multi-Action penalties do not apply to free actions, and free actions never inflict a penalty on other actions.

103

SAVAGE WORLDS

Natural Weapons
Creatures with natural weapons such as fangs, claws, or horns may attack with any or all of them using their Fighting skill. Damage is stated for character ancestries and beasts in their various descriptions.
Creatures with natural weapons are always considered armed. This means they aren't Unarmed Defenders and foes fighting with Two Weapons gain no advantage against them (see page 108). Here are a few additional notes for each type of attack:
 BITE: The creature may bite a target it's grappled (most attackers can only crush their prey, see Grappling, page 101).

Off-hand weapons don't add their Parry bonus unless the hero is Ambidextrous (page 37).
Prone
Ranged attacks suffer a -4 penalty to hit prone characters from a range of 3 or greater (this does not stack with Cover) and subtract four points of damage from Area Effect attacks.
If a prone defender is caught in melee, his Parry is reduced by 2 and he must subtract 2 from his Fighting rolls.
Standing costs a character 2 of movement.
Push

 CLAWS: +2 to Athletics (climbing) rolls on Sometimes characters may want to push a

any rough or soft surface (not sheer steel, foe in hopes of knocking him out of position,

glass, etc.).

prone, or even into a deadly hazard.

 HORNS: Add +4 damage at the end of one Pushing a foe is an opposed roll of Strength.

Fighting action in which it Runs, moves If the attacker is successful he pushes the

at least 5(10 yards), and successfully hits foe back up to 1 (two yards). With a raise,

with its horns.

increase the distance to 2 (four yards).

Double either distance if the attacker's Scale

Nonlethal Damage

is larger than the foe's.

A character who wants to beat someone up without killing them can choose to do nonlethal damage. This requires the attacker use only his fists or a blunt weapon of some sort. Edged weapons may be used if they

A character who's successfully Pushed must make an Athletics roll (at -2 if the attacker got a raise) or be knocked prone.
Running: If the attacker ran at least 2 (four yards) before the Push, he adds +2 to his total.

have a flat side, but this subtracts -1 from the Size Matters: Creatures may not generally

attacker's Fighting rolls.

Push a foe more than two Sizes larger then

Nonlethal damage causes Wounds as usual, themselves unless they have exceptional but if a character is rendered Incapacitated Strength for their Size (GM's call).

he's knocked out for 1d6 hours instead.

Skill: The attacker or defender may roll

Nonlethal Wounds are otherwise treated Athletics instead of Strength if they choose.

exactly as lethal Wounds. This means it's Shields: Attackers and defenders add their

much easier to render an Extra unconscious shield's Parry bonus to their Strength (or

than a Wild Card. This is intentional, and Athletics) rolls when pushing.

should work well for most genres where

heroes can take multiple punches before Ranged Weapons in Melee

going down for the count, but most "mooks"

go out with one or two good punches.

Heroes may fire ranged weapons when

engaged in melee with a few caveats:

Off-Hand Attacks
Characters are assumed to be right-handed unless the player decides otherwise. Actions that require precise eye-hand coordination, such as Fighting or Shooting, suffer a -2 penalty when done solely with the off-hand.

· The attacker may only use a power or a onehanded ranged weapon (such as a firearm no larger than a pistol) when in melee. He may not fire rifles or other "long arms." The TN is the defender's Parry instead of Short Range as he struggles, wrestles back and forth, etc.

104

Rules

· If attacking a non-adjacent target with a ranged attack while in melee, the attacker instantly becomes Vulnerable.
Readying Weapons
Characters may "ready" up to two items per turn as a free action. Readying means drawing, holstering, or otherwise moving an item into or out of a familiar and easy-toreach location.
Each additional item readied is an action, as is readying an item from a difficult location such as an ankle holster, off the floor after being disarmed, or other extenuating circumstances.
Recoil
Unless it says otherwise in its description, firing at a Rate of Fire greater than 1 in one action causes Recoil, a -2 penalty to the attacker's Shooting rolls. A submachine gun with a Rate of Fire of 3, for example, causes Recoil unless its user fires only a single shot.
Recoil isn't cumulative between actions. If a character fires three shots (RoF 3) on one action and triggers the Recoil penalty, he ignores it on a second action if he only fires a single shot.
Reloading
Nocking an arrow or loading a stone in a sling are free actions that may be performed once per action. Reloading a crossbow bolt, clip, magazine, speed loader, or single bullet

so that it's ready to fire (chambered, cocked, etc.) is an action.
Some weapons are slower to reload, like heavy crossbows or black powder weapons. They require a number of actions to reload, listed as "Reload X" in their description.
Example: Gabe fires a heavy crossbow (Reload 2) as part of a Multi-Action, using his other two actions that turn to reload. Since this is three actions, his Shooting roll is made at -4. On the following round, he can fire again at no penalty.
Running & Reloading: Characters who run and load must make an Agility roll (at the usual -2 penalty for running). Failure means no progress toward reloading was made that action.
Shotguns
Shotguns fire a spread of metal "shot," and so do more damage at close range where more of the shot hits the target. Because of this, shotguns add +2 to the user's Shooting rolls and cause 3d6 damage at Short Range, 2d6 at Medium, and 1d6 at Long. Shotguns may not be fired at Extreme Range.
Double Barrels: Some shotguns have two barrels welded side-by-side. If an attacker wants to fire both barrels at the same target, roll damage once and add +4.
Slugs: Shotguns can also fire slugs. The attacker doesn't get the +2 shotgun bonus to his Shooting roll, but the damage is 2d10 regardless of Range (and they may be fired at Extreme Range). Innocent Bystanders (page 102) are hit only on a 1 (instead of 1 or 2).

105

SAVAGE WORLDS

Size & Scale
Characters and creatures have a Size ranging from -4 for very small beings up to Size 20 and higher for massive behemoths. Specific creature Sizes are listed in their statistics, and explained on the Size Table on page 179.
The Size Table lists seven different "Scales," from Tiny to Gargantuan, and the Scale Modifier that goes with each.
When creatures of different Scales attack each other, the smaller creature adds the difference between its Scale and its target to its attacks. A Tiny fairy (-6 Scale modifier), for example, adds +10 to hurl a bolt at a Huge dragon (+4).
The larger creature subtracts the difference from its attacks. A Very Small eagle (-4) subtracts 2 from its Fighting totals when attacking a Tiny fairy (-6).

SCALE MODIFIERS

MODIFIER SCALE & EXAMPLES

-6

Tiny: Armor joint, baseball, mouse

-4

Very Small: Human hand or head, basketball, house cat

-2

Small: Human limb, bobcat

--

Normal: Human, motorcycle, bull, horse

+2

Large: Hippo, most vehicles

+4

Huge: Dragon, whale

+6

Gargantuan: Building, kaiju, ship

RELATIVE SPEED PENALTY

PENALTY

TARGET'S RELATIVE SPEED IS...

-1

60 MPH+

-2

120 MPH+

-4

240 MPH+

-6

Mach 1+

-8

Mach 2+

-10

Near Light Speed+

· Multiply MPH by 1.5 to get Pace. · Divide Pace by 1.5 to get MPH.

Stunned
Stun guns, creature abilities, the stun power, electrical hazards, or other shocks to the brain or nervous system make a character essentially helpless until they manage to shake it off.
Stunned characters:
· Are Distracted (this is removed at the end of the victim's next turn as usual)
· Are Vulnerable (this remains until they recover from being Stunned)
· Fall prone (or to their knees, GM's call) · Can't move or take any actions · Don't count toward the Gang Up bonus
Recovery: At the start of a Stunned char acter's turn, he makes a Vigor roll as a free action. Success means he's no longer Stunned but remains Vulnerable until the end of his next turn. With a raise, his Vulnerable state goes away at the end of this turn.

Called Shots & Target Size
Use the Scale of the target when making called shots against creatures, not their Scale. If a hero wants to blast the eye of a Huge robot destroying the city, for example, use the Scale of the eye, not the robot. If the eye is about the size of a car, the hero adds +2 to his roll because a car is Large, a +2 bonus.
Hitting the vital areas have extra effects listed under Called Shots (page 98).
Speed
Characters occasionally need to attack fast-moving targets. If the relative speed between attacker and defender is 60 Miles per Hour (MPH) or more, apply the Relative Speed Penalty:

Support
Sometimes characters may want to cooperate or help an ally with a task. If so, and the GM decides it's possible, supporting characters roll the relevant skill (on their action if the game is in rounds) and declare which of their ally's Traits they're attempting to Support.
Success grants the ally +1 to one Trait total this round, and a raise adds +2. A Critical Failure on the support roll subtracts 2 from the lead's total --sometimes extra hands just get in the way!
Remove all Support bonuses at the end of the recipient's turn, whether he used them or not (perhaps by taking an action different than the one he was Supported for).

106

The maximum bonus from all Support rolls is +4. Strength checks are an exception and have no maximum bonus since more muscle can always manage more mass.
Players and GMs should be creative when making Support rolls. An adventurer with Survival, for example, might make a roll to find useful herbs for an ally attempting a Healing check, or a galactic explorer with Science might calculate slingshot vectors that help a friend make a tricky Piloting roll.
General encouragement (a Persuasion roll) such as "You can do it!" or "Check your six!" are perfectly acceptable, but at the GM's discretion lose effectiveness if repeated.
Example: Gabe is the driver in a chase. Red points out a shortcut by yelling, "Take the next left!" She rolls Common Knowledge and gets a raise. Gabe adds +2 to his next Driving roll. Later on, Red is hit by a ricochet and is Shaken. Gabe yells, "Toughen up, cowgirl! This ain't your first rodeo!" and makes a Persuasion roll. He gets a success and Red adds +1 to her upcoming Spirit total to recover from being Shaken.
Support Vs. Test
The Support option can be used against an opponent narratively, but the only effect it can have is as detailed above. If a character wants to "trip up" an ogre to help a friend make a Fighting roll against it, for example, she can add +1 or +2 to his roll, but she doesn't actually trip the ogre. It's not made prone, Distracted, Vulnerable, or Shaken as it might if she had used the Test option (page 108).

The advantage for a player in making a Support roll over a Test is to help an ally and avoid a more difficult opposed roll for the Test (even though narratively it might seem like it should be an opposed roll).
Suppressive Fire
Suppressive Fire turns a firearm or other rapid-firing weapon into an area effect attack. It trades accuracy for a hail of ammo to keep the enemies' heads down.
A weapon must be able to fire at least as rapidly as a revolver and can't require reloading in between shots.
Suppressive Fire uses three times the usual number of bullets for its Rate of Fire (see page 93) and always incurs Recoil regardless of the weapon's original Rate of Fire (the Rock and Roll! Edge, bipods, and tripods negate Recoil as usual).
To make the attack, the shooter places a Medium Blast Template on the tabletop and makes a Shooting roll (a single Shooting die regardless of Rate of Fire -- RoF comes into Maximum Casualties, below.) Figure Range, Illumination, Recoil, etc., as usual, to the center of the template.
Next compare the total to each target in the template and consider any modifiers that apply to each (Cover, the Dodge Edge, the deflection power, etc.). Success means the target is Distracted, and a raise means he's actually hit (no bonus damage is possible from Suppressive Fire).

Rules

107

SAVAGE WORLDS

Maximum Casualties: Every target under the template can be Distracted, but it can only cause damage to a number of targets equal to the weapon's Rate of Fire. The attacker chooses which targets are hit among his possible choices.
Example: Gabe fires a minigun at a group of rampaging insectoids. He places a Medium Blast Template over five of them and rolls his Shooting die and a Wild die. He has the Rock and Roll! Edge so he ignores Recoil but still subtracts 2 from his total for Medium Range. He ends up with a 9 on his Shooting roll.
Two of the insectoids were behind a large rock and get Medium Cover. That subtracts 4 from the total so that's a single success--they're Distracted.
Three of the targets were out in the open so they're hit with a raise. Gabe can hit up to five given his weapon's RoF, so all three take damage.
The Rate of Fire of 5 means each "shot" is 40 bullets, multiplied by three for Suppressive Fire. That's 120 bullets, which is why miniguns come loaded with lots of ammo!

the most appropriate skill to roll for it. Tests are resisted instinctively, so the "attacker's" skill roll is opposed by the attribute it's linked to. Tripping someone is an Athletics roll versus Agility since that's what Athletics is linked to. Taunt is linked to Smarts, so verbally humiliating someone is resisted by that attribute. Fighting, when used as a Test instead of an actual attack, isn't compared to Parry -- it's opposed by Agility.
If the attacker wins the opposed roll, he can choose to make his foe Distracted or Vulnerable (see page 100). If he wins with a raise, the target is also Shaken or there may be other subjective effects as the GM allows, such as a tripped foe being knocked prone.
Modifiers: The GM must determine which modifiers apply to a Test. Shooting, for example, should include Range, Cover, Illumination, Recoil, etc. A hero with a bonus to his Parry does not add it to his Agility when challenged with a Fighting roll, however, because the defender resists with Agility -- not his Parry.

Surprise
Combat often starts before everyone involved is prepared. An ambush, a sudden doublecross, or a trap might all give one side in a fight an edge over the other.
When this happens, the ambushers are automatically on Hold. Deal them in as usual anyway in case one of them gets a Joker.
The victims of the attack make a Notice roll (if they haven't already, perhaps from ambushers sneaking up on them). Those who make it are dealt in as usual. Those who fail get no Action Card and can't act in the first round of combat.
Test
The Support option (page 106) allows a character to help out her allies. Test is the opposite--it lets him make things more difficult for his foes! Tests include embarrassing an opponent, throwing sand in his eyes, staring him down with a steely gaze, or anything else a clever player can think of to rattle his enemy and put him off-balance.
To perform a Test, the player describes the action and works with the GM to determine

Take the details into consideration as well -- using Taunt to hit a rival's ego where it hurts, for example, might be worth a +2 bonus to the attacker.
Repetition: Using the same or similar action repeatedly quickly grows less effective, so the GM should apply a steep penalty if a character's Tests become repetitive (or disallow it entirely).
Additional Dice: If characters have addi tional dice for a Test, such as when using a weapon with a high Rate of Fire, he may roll all the dice but takes only the highest as his Test total. He doesn't get multiple results and he can't spread them out to other targets.
Touch Attack
A character who simply wants to touch a foe (usually to deliver a magical effect of some kind) may add +2 to his Fighting roll.
Two Weapons
A character armed with two melee weapons adds +1 to his Fighting rolls if his foe has a single weapon or is unarmed, and has no shield. It adds no bonus against creatures with Natural Weapons (page 104).

108

Rules

Wielding two firearms offers no special advantage other than additional ammunition.
Characters who want to specialize further can take the Two-Fisted or Two-Gun Kid Edge (page 44).

Damage and how to handle vehicles on the tabletop are covered on page 113, under Chases & Vehicles.
Wild Attack

Unarmed Defender
It's difficult to parry a blade with one's bare hands. An attacker armed with a melee weapon adds +2 to his Fighting attacks if his foe has no weapon or shield. (This doesn't stack with the Drop.)
Unstable Platform
A character attempting to fire or throw a ranged weapon from the back of a horse or other mount, a moving vehicle, or other "unstable platform" subtracts 2 from his total.
Vehicles
A sample list of vehicles is included in Chapter Two along with any relevant Notes.
Vehicular weapons work just like any other --characters make Shooting rolls to hit a target and roll damage if successful (plus a bonus die if they hit with a raise). Unless a character has the Steady Hands Edge, don't forget the Unstable Platform penalty.

Sometimes a desperate character may want to throw caution to the wind and attack with everything he's got.
A Wild Attack adds +2 to the character's Fighting attacks and resulting damage rolls for the turn, but he is Vulnerable until the end of his next turn (not this one).
Wild Attacks can be used with multiple attacks, such as from Multi-Actions or the Frenzy and Sweep Edges.
Withdrawing From Melee
Whenever a character retreats from melee, all adjacent non-Shaken and non-Stunned opponents get an immediate Free Attack (see Free Attacks, page 101).
Example: Red is surrounded by five strange xenos and must get to a wounded Gabe. She takes the Defend option (increasing her Parry by +4) and backs away. All five xenos get a Free Attack, at +4 for Ganging Up. Fortunately, Red's high Parry fends them off and she makes her way to her injured friend.

109

The Adventure Tool kit
 Chapter Four

The following chapter contains tools the Game Master can use for all the special situations that often come up in a game, such as:
 ALLIES: Managing Extras under the player character's control.
 CHASES & VEHICLES: Dynamic and thrilling chases on foot, in cars, or on motorcycles, or dogfights between massive fleets of starships!
 DRAMATIC TASKS: Add tension and drama to situations like defusing a bomb or hacking a computer.
 FEAR: The effects of overwhelming terror.
 HAZARDS: The effects of scorching heat, bitter cold, radiation, and more.
 INTERLUDES: Narrative storytelling for long trips or to reveal bits about the player characters' backstories.
 MASS BATTLES: Desperate last stands against incredible odds between armies.
 NETWORKING: Gathering information or asking for favors.
 QUICK ENCOUNTERS: A fast and easy way to resolve fights, heists, or capers when pressed for time.
 SETTING RULES: A host of special rules you can use to customize your setting!
 SOCIAL CONFLICT: Run a court trial, plead for aid, or convince a crowd.
 TRAVEL: Figure out how long it takes for the party to cross your savage world!

 WEALTH: An optional system for those who don't want to worry about tracking income and expenses.
Allies
Allies play a big part in many Savage Worlds games. They serve as troops under your hero's command in Weird Wars, loyal retainers in fantasy settings, or fellow fighters in glorious rebellions against oppression.
When to Use These Rules: Use these rules to help keep track of the party's followers and give them a little extra personality to play off of as well.
The Basics: Players create, control, and track their own followers and nonplayer character allies.
Using Allies
Keeping up with allies in Savage Worlds is simple. Just download the Ally Sheet from our website and fill in the blanks.
Allied Extras are divided up among all the players to control. This is a very important part of Savage Worlds because our settings often feature allied bands of skilled hirelings, fellow grunts, or loyal retainers, and the game is designed to handle them quickly and easily. It's also designed for the players to control them--not the Game Master.

111

SAVAGE WORLDS

It doesn't matter whether or not the Allies & Advancement

characters control the allies, only that the Allies can improve their abilities as well. See players do. This keeps everyone involved Advancement on page 54. in the action even if his hero is out of the

fight, and makes running large combats Ammo

much easier and more fun for everyone. Of course the GM can always take charge of Extras when the need arises, but with good roleplayers this should rarely be necessary.

Keeping track of ammo for all your allies can be difficult. Here's an easy and dramatic way to handle this problem.
The ammo level of each group of allied

Allied Personalities
You can add a little flavor to your allies by rolling on the Allied Personalities table. Jot down the keyword on the Ally Sheet so you and your Game Master have a little insight into each particular ally's character.

Extras starts at Very High, High (the usual level), Low, or Out, as determined by the GM.
After each fight, the ammo automatically drops a level. This makes for dramatic situations and realistic logistical problems while eliminating the bookkeeping.

Consider these general impressions with no particular game effect. They help both the player and GM decide just how an ally might react in a given situation. In a Weird War Two game, for instance, a player with a young

The GM can always decide otherwise, of course. Perhaps the troops are told to fight with hand weapons instead of their firearms, or they don't get to fire off more than a couple of shots before the fight is over.

lieutenant character could look over his list
and choose the "Observant" character to pull Typical Allies

guard duty. If he has to go with the "Lazy" soldier for some reason, there's a good chance the GM will rule he falls asleep sometime during his watch.

Here are a few typical soldier archetypes you might use for your Savage Worlds games. Fill in any additional skills or Edges as you see fit. A group of rangers, for example, should have

ALLIED PERSONALTIES

D20 PERSONALITY

D20 PERSONALITY

the Survival skill, while cavalrymen should have the Riding skill, and so on.

1 Treacherous

11 Crude

Soldier

2 Cruel 3 Old 4 Happy 5 Experienced

12 Agile 13 Observant 14 Clueless 15 Mysterious

Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d4, Spirit d6, Strength d6, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d6, Common Knowledge d6, Fighting d6, Intimidation d6, Notice d6, Persuasion d6, Shooting d6, Stealth d4

6 Gung-Ho

16 Creative

Pace: 6; Parry: 5; Toughness: 5

7 Lazy 8 Sneaky

17 Artistic 18 Fearless

Hindrances: -- Edges: Soldier

9 Bright

19 Cowardly

Experienced Soldier

10 Young

20 Heroic

Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d6, Spirit d6, Strength d8, Vigor d8

Skills: Athletics d6, Common Knowledge d6,

Fighting d8, Intimidation d6, Notice d6,

Persuasion d6, Shooting d8, Stealth d6

"How the

cColmueelIeasslwoanyess?g"et--R

ed

Pace: 6; Parry: 6; Toughness: 6 Hindrances: -- Edges: Soldier and any two combat Edges.

112

Chases & Vehicles
One of the most thrilling staples of adventure film, television, and fiction is the chase. This simple twist on the regular combat rules lets you race muscle cars over blasted deserts, track freestyle runners across concrete jungles, and even recreate desperate dogfights in the sky or the depths of space.
When to Use These Rules: Use the Quick Encounter rules if you just want to find out if the heroes catch a fleeing foe. If you want more detail, use these rules for highly mobile pursuits too large for the tabletop. You'll also find rules for resolving damage against vehicles, and what effect it has on their drivers in this section.
The Basics: Participants vie for position using "Chase Cards" to track relative distance.
Maneuvering Skills
The following rules often call for maneuvering skill rolls. Exactly what skill that is depends on whether the character is on foot, mounted, or in a vehicle of some sort:
 AIRPLANE OR SPACESHIP: Piloting  FOOT OR BIKE: Athletics  MOUNT OR WAGON: Riding  VEHICLE: Driving  WATERCRAFT: Boating

Critical Failure: The standard results for Critically Failing a maneuvering roll are listed below, but the GM can always create her own result appropriate to the situation as well:
· Mounted: Roll a d6. 1­2: the rider loses his turn; 3­4: his mount suffers Fatigue (this applies to the animal's rolls and the rider's Riding rolls); 5­6: the rider suffers Fatigue from a bad bounce, low-hanging obstacle, or overexertion trying to control his animal.
· Vehicle: The operator must roll on the Out of Control table (page 119).
· Walking/Running: Roll a die. Even, he loses the rest of his turn as he stumbles, negotiates an obstacle, or takes a wrong turn. Odd, he suffers Fatigue.
Setup
To start a chase, shuffle an extra deck of Action Cards and deal them out in a row on the table (nine is a good number for most chases, add more as needed).
Now break all the participants into each group that will move and act independently. Everyone in the same ship, boat, or vehicle, for example, is one group. In a foot chase, each player character acts independently because they move independently. The horde of Extras chasing them can be broken up into groups as the GM decides.

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

113

SAVAGE WORLDS

Red and Gabe pursue a ninja in a foot chase (a 5" Range Increment). Gabe is four cards from the ninja so he's 20" (40 yards) away. Red is two cards from the ninja so she's 10" (20 yards) away.

The rear-most character or vehicle should be at the rear--on the far left card or "Card 1." Everyone else should be placed to his right as fits the circumstances. Add more cards to either end of the row if someone falls behind or surges ahead.
The Range is the number of Chase Cards between participants (not counting the attacker's card) times the Range Increment, which varies for the type of chase:

RANGE INCREMENTS

TYPE

INCREMENT

Foot, Mounted, or Vehicular

5

Airplane or Sailing Ship

25

Jets or Starships

50

These are suggested ranges based on the weapons typically used in that type of chase. The goal is to give most ranged weapons the ability to fire at a few cards distance and give an advantage to those with longer ranged weapons. Increase or decrease the Range Increment as makes sense for the particular scenario. In a tank battle, for instance, you might want to change the Range Increment to 100, even though it's a "vehicular" fight.

Chase Rounds
Once all the participants are placed, deal each independent character or group an Action Card at the start of each round as usual. They then act in whatever order they choose as their Action Card comes up. This is important so passengers can Support their driver before he has to make a critical roll, Test a foe to make him Vulnerable, attack before their vehicle changes distance (or after) to take maximum advantage of their weapons, and so on.

The participants can move along the track using the Change Position maneuver (page 115), closing on foes, running from them, or attempting to reach some objective.
The length of each round is up to the GM, but is usually a combat round in a foot or car chase. Battles in space might represent many minutes per round until the action zooms in on a fast-paced dogfight.
Boarders: Characters in or on an enemy vehicle get their own Action Card (as a group).
Minimum Speed: The Game Master must decide who's allowed to participate in a chase. A kid on a bike might be able to chase bandits in a car if the streets are very congested, but is left behind after a round on the open road.
Ending the Chase: A chase ends when one side gets away (disabling all pursuers, the Flee maneuver, etc.) or is forced to stop. Participants can always choose to stop if they want, either dropping out or stopping to engage their enemies.
A chase might also end after a certain number of rounds or as one or more of those involved reach a certain card along the track. In a Weird War Two bombing run, for example, the bombers might need to reach the last card on the track to drop their payload. The fighters scrambling after them must try to stop them before they reach their target.
Chase Actions
Characters in a chase can do most anything they'd normally do, such as Test, Support, use powers, or make attacks. The GM decides how close a character has to be to try a particular action. A defender must be able to see or hear a Taunt for it to be effective, for example. If the attacker and defender are connected via audio

114

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

or video feeds, of course, distance probably won't matter.
Nonplayer character crews of ships, starships, and other large vehicles are assumed to be doing their jobs already and shouldn't roll Support or Tests. Those special actions are the domain of the player characters or named Extras and Wild Cards--including those on the opposing side!
Held Actions: A character on Hold may attempt to interrupt enemy actions as usual. In personal combat (including foot chases), the two make opposed Athletics rolls. When mounted, it's opposed Riding rolls. In vehicle chases, the GM must decide which skills are most appropriate (Athletics vs. maneuvering to interrupt the driver, for example).
If trying to act before an entire vehicle, ship, or group with multiple characters takes its action, the opposed roll should be made against the driver or leader.
Maneuvers
Below are a number of special maneuvers characters can attempt during a chase. Maneuvers may also be part of a MultiAction. A driver can Change Position and fire his weapon, for example, or say he attempts a Force if he gets close enough.
 BOARD (Action): Sailing ships use grappling hooks and planks to pull their prey close and board. Starships might use breaching tubes or assault pods.
To board, the attacker and defender must be on the same Chase Card. The two then make opposed maneuvering rolls. If the attacker is successful, the two vessels are joined and his crew may board the enemy craft.
If defenders have been designated to repel boarders and weren't being used for other purposes (such as sailing or crewing stations on a starship), they start on Hold unless the attacker won the boarding roll with a raise.
Once a boarding action begins, the com mander of the boarded vessel can only attempt to Change Position, which is made at -4 if grappling lines, tractor beams, or other restraints are involved. If she's successful, her vessel is no longer grappled (though some of the boarders may still be on her ship!). With a raise, she breaks free

Groups
Make Group rolls for Extras who move and act together. If they have a Wild Card leader, use his skill to make maneuvering rolls and assume his leadership keeps the group together.
This means Shaken members of a group are dragged along with the rest, and individual Wounds or other conditions are ignored unless that specific member is targeted, or all the members of the group share the same condition.
and may move one Chase Card in either direction.
 CHANGE POSITION (Limited Free Action/ Limited Action): A character or driver may change his position by making a maneuvering roll as a limited free action. Success allows him to move up or down one Chase Card, and up to two with a raise. The character may instead Change Position as a limited action, adding +2 to his roll.
Speed Bonus: If a rider, runner, ship, or vehicle's Top Speed is faster than the fastest of his rivals, he adds +1 to his maneuvering roll to Change Position, or +2 if he's twice as fast.
Dropping Back: In a linear chase, a character may drop "back" one or two Chase Cards without making a maneuvering roll. He may not Change Position further, either as an action or a free action.
 EVADE (Action or Free Action): The char acter or driver zigzags through terrain, maximizes cover, or otherwise concentrates on not getting hit. Melee and ranged attacks against him, his vehicle, or anyone on it suffer a -2 penalty until the start of that vehicle's next turn. The character and any occupants on his mount or in his vehicle also take the penalty to their attacks as the erratic movement or obstacles affect their targeting and aim as well. If the character performs this maneuver as an action, the penalty increases to -4 (in both directions).
Evade may not be taken more than once per round (it does not stack).

115

SAVAGE WORLDS

 FLEE (Action): A character or vehicle may escape the chase if there are at least four Chase Cards between himself and the closest foe. If so, he makes a maneuvering roll at -4 and escapes if successful. The penalty is reduced to -2 if there are at least five cards between them, and 0 if there are six or more.
 FORCE (Action): The attacker attempts to force a rival away from his vehicle or into an obstacle. To do so, both must be on the same Chase Card and make opposed maneuvering rolls. If the attacker wins, he Bumps (see below) his foe. A raise is treated as if the defender rolled a Critical Failure on a maneuvering roll (see Maneuvering Skills, page 113).

 RAM (Action): An attacker can Ram a defender if they're on the same Chase Card by making opposed maneuvering rolls. If successful, both participants cause the following damage to the other:
· Scale: The base damage each being or vehicle causes is based on its Scale: Small (d6), Normal (2d6), Large (3d6), Huge (4d6), and Gargantuan (5d6).
· Raise: +d6 bonus damage for the attacker if he got a raise on his maneuvering roll.
· Toughness: +d6 if the vehicle's Tough ness is higher than his foe's; +2d6 if Toughness is twice as high.
· Speed: +d6 to both sides if the attacker's Top Speed is between 60 and 120 MPH; +2d6 if it's over 120 MPH.

The GM may also allow characters to use other skills, such as Shooting, to put obstacles in the foe's path. Critical Failure means the attempt backfires on the attacker!
 HOLD STEADY (Free Action): The character, driver, or pilot holds steady to line up a better shot. They ignore the Unstable Platform and Running penalties, but attacks against the vehicle and all its occupants are made at +2 until the beginning of their next turn (this does not stack with Vulnerable).

Complications
If a character or group's Action Card is a Club, something has gone wrong. An obstacle may block the path, the engine might stall, or a hero might have to run through mud, ice, uphill, or some other impediment.
The character, driver, or pilot must make a maneuvering roll as a free action to deal with the Complication. The suit on his current Chase Card determines any modifier to the maneuvering roll and the results of failure.

Note: The Action Card triggers the Comp

Bump
Several circumstances result in a character or group being "Bumped." The foe who

lication; the Chase Card defines any modifier (Mod) and the result of failure.
COMPLICATIONS

caused the Bump may move the defender one Chase Card in any direction. She may do this at any time during her turn as she chooses (to resolve other attacks first, for example).

SUIT Spades Hearts

MOD -- ­

FAILURE RESULT
Treat as a Critical Failure on a maneuvering roll.
The character or vehicle is Bumped.

When a target is Bumped by an indirect action (such as a Complication), the opposing side chooses the direction.
An attacker can't Bump a particular target

Diamonds -2

Clubs

-2

The character or vehicle is Bumped.
Treat as a Critical Failure on a maneuvering roll.

more than one space each turn regardless of the source (multiple attacks, the Force

The character or

Joker

+2

vehicle is Bumped up

maneuver, etc.). Other attackers, even

to two Chase Cards.

those sharing the same Action Card, may

Bump the target separately, however.

Special Conditions: GMs can also use

Groups always stay together in a chase, so they're only moved if their driver or leader is Bumped, or the GM feels it's narratively appropriate.

Complications to trigger special conditions or hazards of the encounter. For example, trig gering reinforcements anytime a Diamond Complication occurs, or the first character to fail a Club Complication is hit by lightning

Bumps are only used in chases. Ignore during a battle in a fierce storm.

116 them on the tabletop.

Attacks
Characters may make ranged and melee attacks normally, using all their usual Edges and Hindrances as usual as long as the GM agrees they make sense in the particular situation.
 MELEE ATTACKS: In foot, mounted, or car chases, characters can make hand-to-hand attacks only if they're on the same Chase Card. The usual rules, such as the Gang-Up bonus, Withdrawing from Melee, Innocent Bystanders, etc., apply as the GM sees fit.
Should anyone want to attack a moving vehicle, its Parry is 2+ half the driver's maneuvering skill, plus its Handling. Attacks aren't usually possible between very fast vehicles, airplanes, starships, and the like.
 RANGED ATTACKS: Drivers and chara cters can fire ranged weapons as usual. The Range is the number of Chase Cards between participants (not counting the attacker's card) times the Range Increment. Attacks may also target crew if they're visible (don't forget any Cover they might have).

Damage
 CHARACTERS/MOUNTS: Damage is resolved normally, but if the character (or his mount) is Shaken, Stunned, or Wounded in a chase, he's Bumped as well.
 VEHICLES: Vehicles cannot be Shaken, but if damage equals or exceeds their Toughness (whether they take a Wound or not), the driver must make a maneuvering roll or go Out of Control (see page 119).
Each raise on a vehicular damage roll causes a Wound and one roll on the Vehicle Critical Hits table (not one roll per Wound). Most vehicles can take three Wounds before they're Wrecked (page 118). Each Wound reduces a vehicle's Handling by 1 (to a maximum of -4).
If this is a chase, damage that equals or exceeds a vehicle's Toughness also Bumps it (page 116), but only once per attacker.
Called Shots on Vehicles: To target a particular part of a vehicle, the GM assigns a modifier based on the dimensions of the target. See Size & Scale on page 106 and Cover on page 99 for specifics. If the attack is successful and causes a Wound, it also causes the effects for that area (see the Vehicle Critical Hit table).

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

Fixed Weapons
Front-mounted weapons may only fire at targets ahead of them, side weapons to their respective sides, and rear weapons behind. Top or bottom mounted turreted weapons may fire in any direction unless the situation or particular vehicle says otherwise (assume ships, planes, or starships rise and fall during the turn to accommodate their top or bottom weapons).
Fixed Side-Mounted Weapons (Cannons): Firing fixed side-mounted weapons--those that must be aimed by turning the entire vessel--must be positioned. The captain or pilot chooses his target and makes an opposed maneuvering roll as an action. Failure means he can't line up a shot this turn. Success means the attacker may fire up to half his guns on one side at the target, and a raise means he may fire all of them at that target (a "broadside").
Treat each set of up to four cannons as "linked" (see page 82), rolling attacks and damage separately for each set.
Crossing the T: If a Large target (or greater) is hit by a broadside at Short Range, it's "raked" along its length. Add an additional d6 to each damage roll resulting from the rake.
Reaction Fire
Weapons with this quality spray massive amounts of matter or energy, making them quick to fire against enemies who dart in and out of range to attack. Once per round when their craft is attacked, Reaction Fire weapons may return fire at -2. The attack is resolved after the enemy's who triggered it (if the gunner survives).
117

SAVAGE WORLDS

Wrecked
Vehicles take three Wounds before they're "Wrecked" as their base. Large vehicles can take four Wounds, Huge can take five, and Gargantuans can take six.
A wrecked land vehicle can't move, but its weapons may still be fired if they aren't powered by the vehicle's propulsion system.
Watercraft sink. Small vessels sink in a few rounds. Medium boats might take up to an hour to slip beneath the surface, and large ships might take several hours.
Aircraft plummet to the ground and are destroyed.
Occupants: Those inside a vehicle (and whatever it hits, if it matters) take damage depending on what caused the Wreck:
 COLLISIONS: If the vehicle is Wrecked from a Collision on the Out of Control table, the passengers suffer Xd6 damage, where X is equal to the Wounds the vehicle suffered from the collision (don't forget any Air Bags & Safety Harnesses, page 82).
 DAMAGE: If the vehicle is Wrecked from Wounds caused by enemy attacks, occu pants in a land vehicle, speed boat, starship, or similar vessel take 3d6 damage, or 5d6 if the GM feels the vehicle was traveling at a high speed (usually in excess of 60 MPH) or some other precarious circumstance. Those

on large boats or ships don't take Wounds but must contend with Swimming rolls and survival afterward.
Occupants of an aircraft make an Athletics roll if they have parachutes to land safely. Failure means they take Bumps & Bruises, page 125, from a hard landing. Those who roll a Critical Failure on Athletics or are without parachutes plummet to their death, unless the GM feels they have a chance to survive. In that case they suffer Falling damage (see page 127) instead.
Repairs
Characters may repair vehicles given sufficient time and at least some basic tools. The attempt takes two hours per Wound and a Repair roll. If the roll fails, the mechanic must start over.
Field work requires at least a toolbox and basic supplies, and subtracts 2 from the Repair roll. An average garage negates this penalty, and an excellent or dedicated facility adds +2.
Each success and raise on the Repair roll fixes one of the vehicle's Wounds. With an additional raise above and beyond what's required to fix all Wounds, the repair time is halved.
Wrecks: Wrecked vehicles can be repaired if the mechanic has access to a full body shop and spare parts (GM's call). This takes a full day before other repairs can be made.

118

OUT OF CONTROL

Damage caused by an Out of Control roll doesn't trigger another Out of Control roll, but a Wound triggers a Critical Hit as usual.

2D6 EFFECT

2 Major Collision: Everyone in the vehicle is Distracted. It takes d4 Wounds and one Critical Hit. 3­4 Minor Collision: The vehicle takes a Wound and a Critical Hit.

5­9

Distracted: Ground vehicles spin out or skid. Airplanes or spaceships stall, slide, flip, or roll unexpectedly. Everyone on board is Distracted until the end of their next turn.

10­11 Vulnerable: The vehicle and everyone on board is Vulnerable until the end of their next turn.

12

Glitch: Something is jarred loose or breaks from rough handling. The vehicle suffers a Critical Hit (reroll Crew results).

VEHICLE CRITICAL HITS

2D6 EFFECT

2

Scratch and Dent: The attack just scratches the paint or passes clean through the body without hitting anyone or anything vital. There's no permanent damage.

3

Guidance/Traction: The wheels, tracks, sails, thrusters, etc. have been hit. Reduce Handling by one each time this occurs (to a maximum penalty of ­4).

4­5

Locomotion: The engine, mainsails, boiler, etc., is hit. Top Speed is reduced by 10% each time this occurs (to a minimum of 60% Top Speed).

6­8 Chassis: The vehicle suffers a hit in the body with no special effects.

Crew: For direct damage, subtract the vehicle's Armor (if appropriate for the victim's position) 9­10 and apply the remainder to a random crew member. Area effect weapons affect everyone in
a section determined by the GM. If this is the result of a Collision, the occupants are Shaken.

11 Weapon: A random weapon is destroyed. If there is no weapon, this is a Chassis hit instead.

12

System: The vehicle loses an electronic system, its airbags, or some other system determined by the GM. If it doesn't have any special features, treat this as a Chassis hit instead.

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

Customized Chases
A little customization can make each chase different and unique. Here are some ideas you can use for your encounters.
City Streets
Busy streets are a dangerous place for highspeed vehicle or frantic foot chases. Ranged attacks are made at -2 (in addition to Range penalties) to account for the Cover of buildings, cars, pedestrians, and so on.
Complications besides Jokers have a mini mum penalty of -2 to represent the dangers of running red lights, pedestrians that must be avoided, blocked streets, or other hazards.
Rooftops: If the chase takes place on rooftops, change the results for Critical Failures (and failed Complications that say to treat the result as a Critical Failure) to the following:
Roll a d6. On a 1­2, the runner loses his turn. On a 3­4, he takes Fatigue. On a 5­6,

he tumbles over an edge and must make an immediate Athletics roll (a free action). Success means he catches a ledge, railing, gutter, or other precipice and can pull himself up with a Strength roll (a free action each round). Failure means he's stuck for the turn and can take no further actions. A Critical Failure means the hero falls d6 × 10 stories-- or whatever the GM feels is appropriate for that city.
Deep Space
The Unstable Platform penalty (see page 109) usually applies in chases, but it can be ignored in the vacuum of deep space!
Dogfights & Duels
The Chase rules generally assume the combatants are moving in the same direction-- chasing prey, toward a target or escape route, etc. But the rules can also easily accommodate dogfights, tank battles, demolition derbies, and aerial or naval duels by arranging the Chase Cards in different ways.

119

SAVAGE WORLDS

Instead of dealing the Chase Cards in a straight line, arrange them in a 4×4 grid to create a more fluid battlefield. Vehicles move and count Range orthogonally (no diagonals). Use common sense when determining weapon arcs and vehicle facings. A pirate ship with cannons on either side, for example, can fire left and right on an action, but can't fire at targets ahead or behind them on the same action.
Change the Range Increment as makes sense for your particular battle, letting the weapons with the longest ranges reach across the board but forcing those with shorter range to get in close.
You can also place special cards in the grid to represent asteroid fields or space stations in space battles, whirlpools and islands in naval battles, and so on. They might be impassable or have their own special rules as you see fit.

Naval Chases
Bringing a target to battle on the high seas can take many hours or even days depending on the weather and the initial distance between the vessels.
If the ships are more than a mile apart when first encountered, assume the first phase of the chase represents the pursuer trying to bring the prey to battle. Treat each round as about four hours (or much longer in the age of sail if the wind is against them) and the Range Increment as a mile.
Once the pursuer reaches the same Chase Card as the prey, "zoom" in on the action and run the chase as usual, perhaps using the Dogfights and Duels option discussed above.

Vehicles on The Tabletop
FwCoharancstaetrosoyurssbteeommat.icInnhiaattasuebrsleeastno!)dp, uabesaertittalhel seosrweshpseiamrceepvdleeuhreiulcslleewssitmtohuhasatlnoodtpoleefrtmahtoeevminemoavecenomtnafeinnndteodmfsompbaoiclsietty(ca,ounmsdemytoohune land vehicles.

Movement

Vehicles to make

can move up to 12 maneuvering rolls

on or

the tabletop (or their Pace if slower than that) worry about crashing into obstacles. At that

without having speed they can

move as desired and end their turn facing any direction.

taoesrIrfsrhiaagaindznaraiarvpdneesdrn. waIsfliatttyunha(te-sti1rtoootnollg,-iohs4ef)saiucfsacttenhcree,dsmusofpousvlot,oetbt2hua4ektevmpseethuhriscettluvemrenehankiucdenlselaeitthsmssromathunoegevuhGevDMweirfhisfniaecgyruesrlvtooeGltrlh.rteoThruhewnedidsGr,eitvMiggeirhvstewhtnouautnrhnltdess.,

Failure means the vehicle moves only 12.

coAllCisrioitnic,athl eFaGilMurceamn emaonvsethiteinvteohtihcleengeoaersesOt uobt sotfacCleonortrdoelc(ipdaegiet's11a9f)e.aItfutrheant oint dmicoadteelseda

on the tabletop such as a pothole, small ditch, fallen log, battlefield debris, etc.

Note: Ramming is an opposed test of maneuvering skills. If the attacker hits, use the

damage described under the Ram maneuver on page 116.

Printable "Figure Flats" of characters, vehicles, and monsters are available for most of our settings!
120

Example: Red's Dead Redemption
Red is chasing a notorious space pirate who injured Gabe in a previous encounter. Both Red and the pirate have identical star fighters.
Red is on the first Chase Card and the pirate's on the fifth. That means the Range is 200 (4 × the Range Increment of 50). That's Long Range for her Gatling laser so she decides to get closer. She makes a Piloting roll as a free action and gets a 7, +2 for her ship's Handling gives her a 9. That's a success and a raise so she moves two Chase Cards closer.
There are now two Chase Cards between Red and her target, or 100. That's Medium Range for her Gatling so she fires it up.
The base TN is 4, -2 for Medium Range (no penalty for Unstable Platform in space!). The Rate of Fire on the Gatling is 4 though, so Red rolls four d10s (her Shooting skill) and a Wild die. She gets one regular hit and one with a raise. The regular hit causes 16 damage, which is 2 over the pirate's Toughness of 14. The pirate must make a Piloting roll (he makes it) or go Out of Control. Since this is a Chase, Red also Bumps him a card away--a smart move since the pirate goes next.
Now Red resolves the hit with a raise. This one causes a Wound. She can't Bump the pirate again in her same turn, but he still has to make another Piloting roll or go Out of Control. He fails this time and rolls a 3 on the table, which gives him another Wound. Since he took Wounds from the attack, he takes a Critical Hit as well. It's a 5, so his Top Speed drops 10%. He's now slower than Red so she adds +1 to her Piloting rolls when changing positions.

Crews
Passengers and crews go in whatever order they decide on their Action Card. This can make for dramatic and interactive experiences with a little narrative interpretation. On a pirate ship, the captain makes the maneuvering (Boating) rolls. The rest of the player characters fire a cannon, take a shot with a musket (if the captain is willing to get that close!), yell insults at the enemy (Test), or point out hazards (Support for the captain's Boating rolls). The player character-controlled "bridge crew" of a starship can do the same. Maybe the captain focuses on Testing the enemy in a duel of wits and leaves the maneuvering rolls to the Navigation officer. The Weapons officers fire weapons while the Engineer Supports the navigator, captain, or gunners as needed each turn.
R eminder s · Add or subtract Chase Cards to the
track as needed. · A character's Action Card determines if a
Complication occurs, but his Chase Card determines any penalty and results of failure. · Dealing with a Complication is a free action. · Evade and Hold Steady are good options for characters who don't expect frequent chases and so don't have Edges like Steady Hands.

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

121

SAVAGE WORLDS

Dramatic Tasks
Heroes often find themselves in tense and dangerous situations such as defusing a bomb, hacking a computer, or rescuing people from a burning building or sinking ship with a definite -- and sometimes deadly -- time limit.
The system below simulates these events and helps the Game Master insert some drama into what would otherwise be simple skill rolls.
When to Use These Rules: Dramatic Tasks are great for tense actions that must be performed in a hurry or have disastrous effects if failed.
The Basics: The heroes make skill rolls to accumulate "Task Tokens" and resolve the event before time runs out.
Setup
The Game Master starts by figuring out what the task is, how long the party has to complete it, and how many tokens they need for success.
Single Person Tasks
Use these guidelines when only a single character can attempt the task each turn:

falling starship, the GM must set the number of rounds and tokens required for victory herself. Here are some guidelines.
Assume each player will average one success per turn. Use that as a guideline if you want the task to be "fair," and set the number of rounds from three to five as you feel appropriate. A party of five given three rounds to save a starship, for example, needs to accumulate 15 Task Tokens in three rounds. Increase or decrease the number of tokens to make it more or less challenging.
If the number of tokens achieved is a measure of success rather than a straight win/fail condition, such as rescuing victims from a fire or taking bags of gold from a bank before the automated vault closes, simply set the possible number of tokens that may be gathered in the time allowed. Each token gathered represents a person saved, a bag recovered, etc. It's up to you whether it's possible to save them all (using the guide above) or not.
Don't be afraid to let the party choose how many will attempt the task either, especially if there's something else going on at the same time. Deciding how many heroes will hack a large computer system while they're being attacked by security drones allows them to choose their tactics.

 CHALLENGING: Collect four Task Tokens in three rounds. Examples: Defuse an explosive with no booby traps, hack a keypad in a lowend security door, untangle a parachute before it hits the ground, disengage a railroad car.
 DIFFICULT: Collect six Task Tokens in four rounds. Examples: Defuse a bomb with a booby trap, cast a ritual, land a passenger jet with no Piloting skill and instructions from the tower.
 COMPLEX: Collect eight Task Tokens in five rounds. Examples: Defuse a bomb with multiple booby traps inside a protective case, hack into a highly protected computer system, cast a large and powerful ritual, repair a complicated machine with multiple moving or electronic parts.
Multi-Person Tasks
If more than one person can attempt the task at once, such as crewing different stations in a

Performing the Task
Characters are dealt Action Cards as usual during a Dramatic Task. Those attempting the task make relevant skill checks and get a Task Token for each success and raise. Failure means no progress and a Critical Failure reduces progress by one (if there are any).
The skills that can be used to accumulate tokens depends on the situation. They might be defined, such as Repair to defuse a bomb, or they might be open--a police officer might use Athletics to carry people from a burning building while a mage uses telekinesis (Spellcasting).
Multiple Skills
The GM can break tasks down into steps if she likes, each of which might require different skills. In defusing a bomb, for example, the heroes might first have to get two tokens to crack open the casing using Repair, then

122

three more tokens using Electronics to rewire the timer.
Requiring multiple skills throughout the task makes it more difficult since raises from one type of skill check don't carry over to the other. In the bomb example above, for example, cracking open the case requires two Repair successes. Additional successes don't carry over to the Electronics rolls needed afterward.

Complications
If a character's Action Card is a Club, some thing has gone wrong. Attempts to resolve the task (or Support it!) are made at an additional -2.

Worse, if a roll is failed during a Compl ication, the Dramatic Task fails -- the bomb explodes, the computer locks the hacker out, a victim cannot be saved, and so on. The character may choose not to attempt a roll on a turn he has a Complication -- it just costs him precious time.

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

Support: Characters assisting with the

Support option suffer the Complication

penalty, and an additional -2 if their Action Card is a Club! Critical Failure on their part just subtracts from the lead's roll as usual, however, it doesn't cause the entire task to fail.

The GM decides only one character can defuse the bomb, and that it's a Challenging task (four Task Tokens in three rounds). The GM also decides each step is a Repair roll at

Death Traps

-2 for the difficulty of Fire Bug's devices. Gabe starts working on the bomb right away while

Think carefully before designing Dramatic Red keeps the gang members away.

Tasks that might wipe out the entire party if failed. The threat of catastrophe should be very real-- Savage Worlds is designed around that very concept -- but you don't want a couple of bad die rolls to end the entire game.

Gabe gets a success and a raise on his first round thanks to Support from Red (who also uses Suppressive Fire as a Multi-Action to keep the gang members away). He's halfway there!

Instead of total disaster, maybe the party has a moment to run before the bomb explodes. They don't perish, but later awake in the local hospital, or even captured and experience a new type of adventure.

A Complication comes up on the second round. Gabe is low on Bennies so he decides to wait and Supports Red's Suppressive Fire instead.

On the third and final round Gabe fails...

Example: The Fire Bug
Gabe and Red are cops in New York City searching for an arsonist who's been setting fire bombs all over the city. The "Fire Bug" placed the latest bomb in a gang warehouse in hopes of starting a war with their rivals.

the heroes have to run for it! KaBoOM! They failed to defuse the bomb and now the gang war is on -- but this just leads to new adventures for our heroes!
"You can't win `em all."

Red and Gabe found the device and are trying to defuse it while the gangers attack

--G abe

the cops for being on their turf!

123

SAVAGE WORLDS

Fear
Cold dread seizes the heroine as she enters the lost tomb. A dragon emerges from the cave, belching smoke and fire at the adventurers who threaten its hoard. An investigator stumbles upon a scene of grisly, ritualistic carnage.
These rules reflect the horror of these terrible situations upon your heroes' psyches.
When to Use These Rules: Characters in realistic, horror, or "dark" games should usually be subject to the constant effects of fear and terror. Fear in high fantasy or super hero games is probably only used as the effect of a creature ability or arcane power.
The Basics: Characters make a Spirit roll when confronted by creatures or situations that cause Fear.
Fear Checks
The heroes make a Fear check (a Spirit roll as a free action) when they first spot a creature with the Fear ability.
Success means a character manages to overcome the situation and carry on. A failed Fear check means the unfortunate soul faces the consequences below, depending on whether the source of fear was grotesque or terrifying in nature:
 NAUSEA: If the scene was grotesque or horrific, such as a grisly discovery or learning a secret "Man Was Not Meant to Know," the character is Shaken and Fatigued. Critical Failure means the victim must roll on the Fear Table as well.
 TERROR: A terrifying trigger, such as a monstrous creature or unknowable evil, is much more intense. Extras are typically Panicked. Wild Cards must roll on the Fear Table (at +2 with a Critical Failure on the Fear check). Roll a d20 and add the monster's Fear penalty, if any, to the roll (a -2 adds +2 to the roll, for example).

Becoming Jaded
After encountering a particular type of creature, the character shouldn't have to make Fear checks every time he sees another in that particular scenario. If the party clears out an asylum full of spectral inmates, for example, they should only have to roll the first time they encounter them--not in every room. The Game Master might require a roll if the heroes encounter such horrors in a particularly different or frightening situation, however.

D20* 1­3 4­6 7­9 10­12 13
14­15 16­17 18­19 20­21
22+

FEAR TABLE
EFFECT
Adrenaline Surge: The hero's "fight" response takes over. He acts as if he had a Joker this action!
Distracted: The hero is Distracted until the end of his next turn.
Vulnerable: The target is Vulnerable until the end of his next turn.
Shaken: The character is Shaken.
The Mark of Fear: The hero is Stunned and suffers some cosmetic physical alteration--a white streak forms in his hair, his eyes twitch constantly, or some other minor physical alteration manifests.
Frightened: The character gains the Hesitant Hindrance for the remainder of the encounter. If he already has it, he's Panicked instead.
Panicked: The character immediately moves his full Pace plus running die away from the danger and is Shaken.
Minor Phobia: The character gains a Minor Phobia Hindrance somehow associated with the trauma.
Major Phobia: The character gains the Major Phobia Hindrance.
Heart Attack: The hero is so over whelmed with fear that his heart stutters. He must make an immediate Vigor roll at ­2. If successful, he's Stunned. If he fails, he's Incapacitated and dies in 2d6 rounds. In the latter case, a Healing roll at ­4 saves his life, but he remains Incapacitated. He may be treated normally thereafter.

*Add the creature's Fear penalty as a positive number to this roll.

124

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

Hazards
Heat, cold, hunger, thirst, lack of sleep, and other hazards can wear down even the hardiest of heroes, sending them into a downward spiral that can lead to death if they can't improve their situation.
When to Use These Rules: Hazards intro duce resource management to long trips through dangerous regions. They also push the party toward critical resources like water or shelter where encounters with other travelers or creatures are likely present.
The other Hazards listed here, such as falling, poison, disease, and the like, generally come up in response to a creature or situation.
The Basics: Each Hazard is different, but most are an attribute check made periodically against some dangerous effect. Failure tends to cause Fatigue (page 100). Use the standard rules modified by any changes noted in this section.
Bumps & Bruises
Stumbling down a slope or running through a cavern in the dark might cause numerous cuts, scrapes, and bumps.
Characters moving through injurious terrain make an Athletics roll. Those who fail gain a level of Fatigue.
Recovery: Fatigue levels from Bumps & Bruises improve one level every 24 hours instead of every hour (see Fatigue, page 100).
A character may use the Healing skill to treat and cover the injuries, or medicate the patient to relieve pain at any time. Success relieves one level of Fatigue from Bumps & Bruises and a raise relieves two. Each healer may attempt this roll only once unless the GM decides a change in circumstances warrants another opportunity (finding medical supplies, for example).
Climbing
Climbing uses the Athletics skill, and the basics are covered under Movement on page 92. When the game is in rounds, each inch climbed takes 2 of Pace.

No roll is usually needed to ascend ladders or trees with sturdy limbs unless the GM feels there's a good reason (being chased, injured, etc.).
Under stress (such as during combat rounds), the climber must roll Athletics to make progress. Success means he moves normally, failure means he doesn't make any progress that round, and a Critical Failure indicates a fall! If secured by a rope or other restraint, he falls half the length of the restraint and suffers Fatigue from Bumps & Bruises (see above). If unsecured, see the Falling rules on page 127.
Modifiers: The GM should assign a bonus (+2) if the surface has numerous hand- and footholds or the climber has good equipment. Assign a penalty (-1 to -4) for smooth surfaces, lack of equipment, bad weather, etc.
Prepared Climbs
Break lengthy ascents like climbing mountain sides into three roughly even sections. Assume any falls occur at the "top" of each section.
The GM might also consider using the Dramatic Task system (page 122) if the surface must be ascended in a certain amount of time--such as before weather hits, guards return, etc.
Cold
Trudging through deep snow for hours on end or facing biting, bitter winds can dehydrate and tire a character as quickly as blazing deserts.
For every four hours spent in weather below freezing (32°F), a character must make a Vigor roll. Failure means he gains a Fatigue level. Subtract 2 from the victim's Vigor roll for every 20 degrees below freezing, to a maximum of -4.
Clothing: Subtract 2 if the character has only light clothing. Add +2 for modern winter gear, or +4 for advanced gear (heated suits).
Death: Incapacitated victims die after 2d6 hours instead of waking Exhausted.
Recovery: Victims can only recover Fatigue once they receive adequate warmth and shelter.

125

SAVAGE WORLDS

Disease

Swimming up or down stream should modify this as the Game Master sees fit.

Diseases cover a wide range of maladies, from Under hazardous conditions, swimmers

long-term debilitating illnesses to those which must roll Athletics to move. Failure means

might cause immediate spasms or death.

she makes no progress that round, and a

Diseases can be contracted through Critical Failure causes a level of Fatigue. With various vectors, such as an airborne source, success she moves normally.

ingestion, or the touch or bite of a creature If it becomes important to know, characters

that causes a Wound or Shaken result. In any can hold their breath for a number of rounds

of these situations, the victim must make an equal to 2 plus their Vigor die, or half that if

immediate Vigor roll to avoid infection.

they weren't prepared for being submerged

To handle such a diverse range of diseases, and didn't have time to get a good breath.

we've broken them down into three major Life Vests: Add +2 to swimming rolls if a

categories. If you're trying to model a specific character wears a life vest.

disease, adjust the rules presented here to Death: Incapacitated characters perish in a

better reflect its symptoms.

number of rounds equal to their Vigor die. If

Recovery: Diseases can only be cured by someone can get to the victim before then, he

waiting until they've run their course or with can be resuscitated with a Healing roll at -2.

specific medications -- whether or not those

are available depends on the setting.

Electricity

The symptoms can often be treated by common medicines, however. With a success ful Healing roll, a doctor, physician, shaman, etc., can prescribe or create a treatment. He may attempt to do so once per day.

Touching or brushing up against an electrical outlet or the kind of electric fence found around small farms requires a Vigor roll at -2. Success means the character is Distracted. Failure means he's Stunned.

Each application of the treatment (pills, poultices, etc.) reduces Fatigue by one level for four hours.

If the source was gripped (such as trying to climb a fence and grabbing an electrified wire), the muscles freeze up and the victim

Drowning

can't let go until he makes a Vigor roll at -4 (at the start of each turn as a free action).

Swimming is covered under Movement Each round the roll is failed, he takes a level on page 92. In still water, each inch of of Fatigue. Once Incapacitated, he lets go and movement on the tabletop takes 2 of Pace. no further rolls are required.

DISEASE CATEGORIES

TYPE

EFFECT

Chronic

Includes leprosy, the final stages of tuberculosis or cancer, and similar severe maladies. They may result in death if left untreated. At the start of every game session, the character makes a Vigor roll. Failure means she's Exhausted from spasms, coughing fits, or similar issues for that session. A Critical Failure means he will expire before the end of the session. The GM is encouraged to let heroes go out in a blaze of glory if possible. Success means the victim is Fatigued for the game session, and a raise means he gets a second wind and suffers no ill effects.

Debilitating

Flus, viruses, stomach bugs and the like have various specific symptoms but generally result in the character being Fatigued for 2d6 days.

Lethal

Fast-acting diseases that kill are rare in the real world but might be found on alien worlds or the darkest depths of forgotten dungeons. On contracting the disease, the hero is Fatigued. At the start of each turn thereafter, he must make a Vigor roll or suffer a Wound! (Some diseases may call for a Vigor roll more slowly, such as once per hour or once per day.) A successful Healing roll stops the effects only if the proper medicine is on hand to stop the disease. The healing power also halts the effects.

126

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

High Voltage
Contact with a high voltage electrical source such as a military-level fence or power line causes 4d6 damage.
In dramatic games, this knocks the victim away from the fence 1d4. In more realistic games, the victim spasms and must make a Vigor roll at -4 each turn to let go (a free action at the start of his turn). If failed, he suffers the damage each turn until he manages to let go or dies.
Increase the damage to 5d6 if the victim is standing in water or in the rain.
Armor: Armor doesn't protect from electrical damage unless it's specifically designed to do so (i.e., a rubberized suit).

Fire
If a flammable target is hit by fire (GM's call), roll 1d6. On a 6, the target catches fire and immediately takes the damage listed below. Very flammable targets catch fire on a 4­6. Volatile targets, such as a person soaked in gasoline, catch fire on a 2­6.
FIRE DAMAGE
DAMAGE DESCRIPTION
1d6 Spot contact, steam
2d6 Bonfire, burning room
3d6 Flamethrower
5d6 Lava

Falling
Falling damage is 1d6 + 1 per 2 (4 yards), to a maximum of 10d6 + 1 0.
Snow: Particularly soft ground, such as very deep snow, acts as a cushion. Every foot of soft snow reduces damage 1 point.
Water: A successful Athletics roll halves damage into reasonably deep water at heights of 10 (20 yards) or less. A raise negates the damage entirely. Those who fall into water from heights greater than 20 yards take damage as if they'd hit solid earth.

Fire continues to cause damage at the beginning of the victim's turns. Roll a d6 immediately after it does so. On a 6, it grows in intensity to whatever maximum the GM feels is appropriate (usually 3d6 for organic beings). On a 1, the fire drops a level, or burns out if reduced below 1d6 damage.
A character may also make an Athletics roll to put out a fire on himself, others, or a flame the size of a Medium Blast Template. This is an action, plus any modifiers for intensity, tools, the flammability of the target, etc.
Armor: Armor protects normally unless the attack or hazard's description says otherwise. A hero hit with a flamethrower is still better off if he has a Kevlar vest than not, for example.
Flaming Weapons: Flame doesn't cause extra damage but may set the target on fire.

127

SAVAGE WORLDS

Smoke Inhalation
Fires in confined areas produce deadly smoke. Each person within must make a Vigor roll every round. If the roll is failed, the character gains a level of Fatigue. A wet cloth adds +2 to the roll and a "SCBA" (firefighter's) mask negates the need for the roll entirely.
Death: A person Incapacitated from smoke inhalation dies in a number of minutes equal to his Vigor. If someone can get to the victim before then, he can be resuscitated by removing him from the hazard and a Healing roll at -2.
Heat
Intense heat, typically that over 90 degrees Fahrenheit, can cause heat exhaustion and heatstroke, both of which are very dangerous. The actual danger is from dehydration, so well-supplied and conscientious characters can greatly improve their chances in extreme heat simply by carrying a good amount of water and drinking frequently.
The Rule of Threes
Extreme survivalists often talk about the "rule of threes." All of these apply to reasonably healthy individuals, of course. Those with illnesses or other infirmities will fare worse.
These "rules" encourage those in dangerous circumstances to prioritize, seeing to their shelter in a freezing environment before worrying about water and food, for example. In the game, these conditions should only come into play when dramatically appropriate.
 AIR: A standard rule of survival says most people can survive three minutes without air (though they likely pass out and need resuscitation after a minute).
 SHELTER: You can live for three hours without shelter in a harsh environment, such as sub-zero temperatures.
 WATER: You can live for three days without water.
 FOOD: You can live three weeks without food.

When the temperature reaches 90 degrees or more, heroes must make Vigor rolls every four hours. Those who fail take Fatigue that can only be recovered by cooling down (see Recovery, below).
Modifiers: Subtract 1 or 2 from rolls made in high or extreme heat. Subtract an additional 1 or 2 points if the characters engage in vigorous or extreme activity.
Heatstroke: If a character is Incapacitated from heat he must make another Vigor roll. Success follows the usual rules for Incapacitation from Fatigue, but failure permanently reduces his Vigor a die type (to a minimum of d4). A Critical Failure on this roll means he perishes.
Recovery: A victim must cool down some how to recover Fatigue. This usually means water, shade, air conditioning, etc.
High Altitude
Traversing landscapes at high elevations can cause Fatigue -- and potentially worse -- to those who aren't used to it. When traveling at altitudes roughly a mile high or higher, a character must make a Vigor roll every four hours. Failure means the hero incurs a Fatigue level. The roll is at -2 for elevation greater than 10,000 feet, and -4 (maximum) for higher than 15,000 feet.
Hunger
Average-size humans need about 1,500 calories of reasonably nutritious food per day to avoid the effects of hunger. If sufficient sustenance isn't available, a character begins to suffer from hunger.
After 24 hours without enough food, the victim must make a Vigor roll. Subtract 1 if the individual has less than half the required calories, and -2 if he has no food at all. Failure means the character gains a Fatigue level.
See the Survival skill, page 35, when a character wants to hunt or scrounge for food from the local environment.
Death: An Incapacitated character dies from hunger 3d6 hours later.
Recovery: The victim must have at least a half day's food to recover.

128

Poison

Radiation

The bane of adventurers across all Savage Worlds can be delivered by the smallest of foes--poison!
When an adventurer comes into contact

Characters in a radioactive environment must make a Vigor roll every hour spent in low radiation, and every minute in high radiation. Each failure results in a Fatigue level.

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

with poison (at least a Shaken result if an attack) he must make an immediate Vigor roll minus the Strength of the poison (if listed). Failure means the character is Distracted in addition to any specific effects listed below.
 KNOCKOUT: The victim is knocked out (Incapacitated and unconscious) for 2d6 hours (twice that with a Critical Failure).
 LETHAL: The victim is Stunned, takes a Wound (two with a Critical Failure), and perishes in 2d6 rounds.
 MILD: The victim suffers Fatigue, or Exhaustion with a Critical Failure. This cannot cause Incapacitation.
 PARALYZING: Treat as Stunned. If a Duration is listed, the victim cannot attempt to recover from being Stunned until that amount of time has passed. Otherwise, she may attempt to recover from paralysis on her next turn as usual.
These are basic and simplified poison effects that can be altered as needed to suit specific creatures or hazards. A particularly deadly snake in your fantasy world, for example, might still cause Exhaustion to those who resist its effects, or Fatigue with a raise.
Treatment: A character may make a Healing roll minus the strength of the poison (if any modifier is listed) to stop its effects. If this action is successful, the victim's life is saved and the poison no longer has any ill effects -- paralyzed victims can move and those rendered unconscious wake.
Each character may only attempt one Healing roll per incident to cure the

Radiation Poisoning: An Incapacitated victim contracts radiation sickness, a Chronic Disease, as explained under Disease on page 126.
Sleep
Most people need a minimum of six hours' sleep out of every 24. A character who goes without must make a Vigor roll at a cumulative -2 every 24 hours thereafter (to a maximum penalty of -4) or suffer Fatigue. A large amount of coffee, soda, or other stimulant adds +2 to the roll.
Thirst
An average-sized human requires two quarts of water a day. This requirement is doubled in very dry conditions (such as the desert) or areas of heat and high humidity (the jungle) as the character perspires constantly and begins to dehydrate.
If enough water isn't available, the hero begins to suffer from dehydration. A day after he can't get enough water, he must make a Vigor roll every eight hours (every four hours in a very hot or humid environment).
Subtract 2 if he has less than half the water he needs in that period, and -4 if he has no water at all. Failure incurs a level of Fatigue and Critical Failure means he's Exhausted.
See the Survival skill on page 35 when a character wants to search for
water from the local environment.
Recovery: Characters recover Fatigue levels normally after receiving sufficient water.
Death: An individual Incapacitated by thirst perishes after 2d6 hours.

poison, but another

character with

Healing may make

a second attempt,

and so on.

129

SAVAGE WORLDS

Interludes
Interludes are tales the players tell in-character to roleplay, enhance a long travel scene, or reveal the secrets and backstories they've put so much effort into.
When to Use These Rules: Interludes give players a way to get to know their characters, reveal some of their backstories, and even add to the world you're all building together.
The Basics: Players tell a story from their character's point of view and are rewarded with a Benny.
Running An Interlude
When you want to give your players a moment to catch their breath and get into character, allow those who want to take part to draw a card from the Action Deck. The suit of the card gives each player three choices: Downtime, Backstory, or Trek. (If a player draws a Joker give everyone an extra Benny and let them choose the suit and category!)
 DOWNTIME: What the hero does when left alone. A priest might quietly read a holy text while a warrior constantly sharpens his blades.
 BACKSTORY: A tale of the character's past, told through her voice and narration.
 TREK: The story of an obstacle or challenge the party encountered on their trip.
Reward
Those players who participate in the I nterlude receive a Benny.

INTERLUDES
SPADES
Downtime: The character spends time alone in quiet contemplation. What does she do?
Backstory: A great victory or personal triumph.
Trek: A difficult obstacle the group negotiated along the way.
HEARTS
Downtime: The hero practices a skill. What is it?
Backstory: A tale of the hero's greatest love -- lost, found, present, or waiting on her back home.
Trek: How the party endured a trying hardship on the journey.
DIAMONDS
Downtime: The character studies or works on an object of some sort. What is it?
Backstory: Something your hero wants or already has. It might be a material possession, recognition, a political goal, or even a trip he wishes to take to some amazing destination.
Trek: How the group found something that helped them along the way, such as an oasis, minor treasure, ammo, food, friendly locals, etc.
CLUBS
Downtime: Your hero broods or is angry about something. What is it, and how does she misbehave?
Backstory: A tale of misfortune from your hero's past, perhaps revealing something of his Hindrances or a dark secret.
Trek: A hardship the party overcame on their trip: the tragic death of a favored Extra, spoiled or lost supplies, a mechanical breakdown, abysmal weather, and so on.

130

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

Mass Battles
Many adventures feature heroes traveling about the land, gathering allies to thwart some inevitable foe or loathsome horde. They build coalitions, train armies, discover powerful artifacts, and finally stand against the enemy in desperate and glorious battle.
The rules presented here allow the Game Master to handle everything from a small warband holding a fort against an undead horde to full divisions of troops fighting a massive field battle or a planetary assault from a space-based invasion fleet. It's abstract, but provides a narrative base for heroes to plan, get involved, and take part in the carnage!
When to Use These Rules: Use the Mass Battle rules when you need to resolve a large conflict that can go either way, and also allow the player characters to have a role in its outcome. The culmination of these tales is not always a foregone conclusion, and failure can be just as interesting as victory!
The Basics: Each side has a number of "Force Tokens" equal to its relative strength and size. Commanders roll their Battle skill each turn. The winner reduces his rival's force until one side or the other breaks.
Setup

Battle
At the start of each round, the player characters discuss and decide on their plan.
Next comes opposed Battle rolls by the rival commanders. Add the modifiers below as appropriate to each roll.

BATTLE MODIFIERS

MODIFIER CIRCUMSTANCE

+1 per point of advantage

Force Bonus: The side with the most Force Tokens adds +1 for each point of difference. If the larger army has 10 tokens and the smaller one has 7, for example, the commander of the more powerful army adds +3.

+1 to +4

Tactical Advantage: Grant a +1 to +4 bonus for any special cir cumstances that might help that army, such as air superiority, fortifications, or other conditions not otherwise factored into the army's strength.

+1 to +4

Battle Plan: Add +1 to +4 if one side has a particularly effective or clever plan over the other.

Results
The winner of the opposed roll consults the Battle Results. Any casualties are generally distributed evenly throughout the army or however the GM feels is most appropriate.

To start, give the larger or more powerful army 10 Force Tokens. Give the opposing army a proportional number of tokens. If one army has 10,000 warriors, for example, and the other has 7,000, give the smaller army seven tokens. These represent the troops, vehicles, ships, etc., in each side's army.
Adjust the ratio as makes sense to account for special or elite troops, better equipment, and so on. If one army is half as powerful as another, for example, give one side 10 Force Tokens and the other five. Get close enough to give a reasonable approximation of relative strength. The dice and the players' actions will handle the rest.

BATTLE RESULTS

MODIFIER RESULT

Tie Success

Draw: Both sides lose one Force Token.
Marginal Victory: The victor loses one Force Token, the defeated loses two.

Raise

Victory: The defeated army loses two Force Tokens.

Time: A standard battle round is two hours of hard fighting. The Game Master should change this as suits her needs or the story. A more reserved fight might have four- or even eight-hour rounds, while a siege might be a battle round per day.

131

SAVAGE WORLDS

Morale
After an army loses one or more Force Tokens, its leader rolls his Spirit modified by these circumstances:

MORALE MODIFIERS

MODIFIER CIRCUMSTANCE

-1

Each Force Token lost so far.

+2

The army is made up mostly of undead or other fearless troops.

+2

The army is within fortifications or prepared positions.

+2

The army cannot retreat or will be killed if it does.

Success means he cajoles the army to fight on. The battle continues another round (or as the attacker sees fit).
Failure means the commander loses control of his force. The army is defeated but conducts an orderly retreat. Critical Failure means they flee the field in a reckless rout. They may be scattered temporarily or permanently, ridden down by the enemy, or captured as the GM decides.

Aftermath
When one side routs, retreats, or runs out of Force Tokens, the battle ends. If it's important to determine the fate of named Extras or other nonplayer characters, use the Aftermath & Extras rules on page 96.

Failure means the warrior fought bravely. She takes a Wound but doesn't add to the commander's Battle roll. A Critical Failure means the hero rolls on the Battle Effects table but also suffers d4 + 1 Wounds!
The Game Master and players should work together to describe each character's glorious scenes of bravery and carnage once the results are determined.

2D6 2
3­4 5­9 10­11
12

BATTLE EFFECTS
RESULT
Inspire: The warrior battles valiantly, inspiring the troops and urging them to fight on despite their injuries. Her side immediately recovers one Force Token.
Terrorize: The fighter's fury terrorizes her foes. The enemy commander subtracts 2 from his Spirit roll if forced to test morale this round.
Valor: The warrior's Support adds +2 to the commander's Battle roll as usual.
Slaughter: The foe reels at the champ ion's onslaught. Subtract 2 from the enemy commander's Battle total.
An Army of One: Tales will be told and songs sung of the warrior's epic feats this day. The enemy army loses a Force Token immediately (this doesn't subtract from his Battle roll but does cause a morale check even if he wins).

Characters In Mass Battles
Player characters can dramatically affect the results of the battle. Before their commander makes his Battle roll, each player who wants to enter the fray describes what she's doing and makes a Support roll with whatever skill she feels is most appropriate. (Don't forget that enemy champions can add to the rival commander's Battle roll as well!)
Success grants the commander +1 to his Battle roll but the hero takes Fatigue from Bumps & Bruises for her efforts. With a raise, she emerges unharmed and rolls on the Battle Effects table. She may choose to use the result rolled or give her commander the usual +2 bonus instead.

Ammo & Power Points
If it's important to track, each round a hero enters the fray and uses his Shooting or an arcane skill he expends some of his ammunition or Power Points.
Arcane types use 3d6 Power Points each round of battle. Characters with ranged weapons fire at their weapon's standard Rate of Fire, 2d6 times.
The GM should alter these numbers based on tactics, the length of each battle round, weapon types, or how long she thinks the hero has to recover or rearm between rounds.
Example: Gabe is in a mass battle against a horde of xenos. His minigun's RoF is 5 so it fires 40 bullets per shot (see page 93). He rolls 7 on 2d6, so Gabe uses 7 × 40 bullets, or 280 rounds!

132

Networking

Intimidation (The Not-so-Nice Way)
Intimidation can also be used to gather

information, call in favors, or make demands,

Your heroes often need to spend some time finding information or asking for favors. You can roleplay these encounters out, or you can allow them to use their skills in a "macro" sense -- summing up hours of effort with a

but it's a little less savory.
Each attempt to "work the streets" takes several hours of threats and general unpleasantness, rousting the local populace for whatever the hero needs.

single roll.

Success grants the character most of what

Persuasion is the nice way of interacting with one's contacts. The flip side of the coin is Intimidation. Either can get the job done but in slightly different ways, as shown below.
When to Use These Rules: Networking is a good way for social characters to spend their time while bookworm types are doing Research.
The Basics: Characters use their Persuasion or Intimidation to gather favors or information. As always, the GM should apply any bonuses or penalties appropriate to the situation.

she wants, though her victims might decide to get some payback later on. A raise means she gets more info, gets it faster, or her victims are too scared or otherwise preoccupied to plot revenge.
Failure means the goon doesn't get anything useful. A Critical Failure means she ends the evening with a fat lip, black eye, or broken nose (see Bumps & Bruises, page 125). She can work her contacts again the next day, but they're more likely to be waiting for her this time!
Busting Heads: The bruiser can improve

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

Persuasion (The Nice Way)

her odds by getting more violent or extreme

Characters use Persuasion to socialize within than usual. This alienates her contacts for a

their various social circles for information or week but adds +2 to the roll.

favors. When used in this way, Persuasion This raises the stakes as well. A simple

isn't a single exchange but several hours failure means the evening ends with Bumps

of networking, hobnobbing, carousing, & Bruises (page 125), and a Critical Failure

drinks, gifts, bribes, or entertaining. This bears more serious consequences. The GM

might represent time at the office, a series might break the action down to an actual

of meetings with important people, or (most encounter (which might be an ambush!), she

commonly) an evening of dinner and drinks. might run afoul of the law, come back with

Success grants most of what the character wants, though it may take a while, cost some money, or require a favor in return. A raise

two levels of Fatigue from Bumps & Bruises, or her questions might trigger a deadly reaction from a more powerful enemy!

either gets more of whatever he was looking for, or at a lower cost.

Example: Savage Mojo

Failure means the hero's efforts are in vain. A Critical Failure means he's cut off from that particular group for a while (up to the GM but typically about a week).

Gabe is a private eye in Deadlands Noir. He needs to find out where the Red Hand, an evil voodoo cult in New Orleans, has taken the District Attorney.

Money Talks: You can catch more flies with honey than vinegar, the saying goes. A character with a little lucre to spread around adds +2 to her networking attempt by spending money on better bribes, gifts, or wining and dining her contacts.

Gabe's Intimidation is better than his Persuasion, and he has the Menacing Edge that adds +2 to Intimidation rolls. Time is tight so he decides to bust some heads. That adds another +2 to his roll. With the +4 bonus he gets a success and a raise. Gabe finds

The amount required is up to the GM, where the DA is being held and how many

the setting, and the nature of the contact(s) guards are with her as well.

she interacts with. As a rule of thumb, use

the setting's Starting Funds and modify as

appropriate from there. 133

SAVAGE WORLDS

Quick Encounters
Sometimes the Game Master may want to quickly sum up an encounter rather than track every action round by round. "Quick Encounters" resolve these kinds of situations with good collaborative storytelling, tension, and risk.
When to Use These Rules: Use Quick Encounters when you're pressed for time, the group isn't as interested in tactical fights, or they do something the GM isn't prepared for, like infiltrating a large complex she hasn't detailed.
The Basics: Characters make a skill roll based on the type of encounter and their goal and interpret the results narratively with the Game Master.
Encounter Types
No Action Cards are dealt in a Quick Encounter. Instead, the GM describes the scene, then the players agree on a general plan and what each of their characters will do.
Once everyone states their intent, they can pick the skill that best represents their actions during the encounter.
Here are some examples:
 CHASE: Common Knowledge (for navi gation), Driving, Repair, Shooting.
 COMBAT: Fighting, Shooting, arcane skill.
 CRISIS: Athletics, Persuasion (to calm bystanders), Repair.
 HEIST: Hacking, Notice, Stealth, Thievery.
 MISSION: Battle, Boating, Fighting, Persuasion, Piloting, Shooting.
 TREK: Common Knowledge, Notice, Survival.
Modifiers: The GM should assign modifiers based on the situation. If the heroes greatly outnumber their opposition, pursue much slower prey, have prior experience with the obstacles in their path, or special equipment to deal with hazards, the roll might be made at +1 to +4.
Very difficult encounters, such as powerful foes (relative to the party), faster prey, or extreme conditions inflict a -1 to -4 penalty.

Turn Order & Critical Actions
Players can go in whatever order they want in a Quick Encounter. This might be important if some of their actions are dependent on someone else's. In a heist, for example, the group might depend on the hacker to shut down a company's security measures before they can break in. Similarly, the crew of a B-17 in Weird War Two might need the navigator to get them to the mission location before they can fend off enemies and bomb a target.
Resolve these kinds of actions in the order that makes sense, and allow those who come after to change their own plans as the situation changes.
If a critical task is failed, the GM must decide if it stops the encounter or simply complicates it (perhaps inflicting a penalty to everyone else's roll). In the heist example above, for example, maybe the hacker does break in but alerts the guards, inflicting a -2 penalty to Stealth or combat rolls and possibly turning the operation deadly. In the Weird War Two example, the navigator might still get them to the location but arrives just as the enemy fighters respond and make things more difficult.
These kinds of complications might also mean resolving the encounter in multiple stages instead of one roll as the heroes must react to the changing circumstances (see Staged Encounters, below).
Staged Encounters
Quick Encounters are typically a single die roll followed by some narration between the GM and the players. But some encounters might need additional rounds to better reflect the results or any new information or events that come to light.
If the heist to break into a pawn shop and steal a powerful occult artifact goes badly, for example, the next stage might become a crisis when the shop suddenly bursts into supernatural flames. That might then lead to a combat encounter as an artifact in the shop breaks and releases an angry djinn!
The beauty of staged encounters is their ability to handle complex problems when the constraints of time or larger narrative require a speedy resolution.

134

Encounter Results

If they can try again, the GM should "reset" the encounter with the new narrative so the

Once each player has determined her skill group has to come up with a new plan. And and any modifiers, she rolls the dice and of course, their foes are likely on to them now!

works with the Game Master to narrate the details based on the total, the situation, and the other players' actions.

Ammo & Power Points
Use the rules for Ammo & Power Points under Mass Battles (page 131) for combat

Dangerous Encounters

encounters if desired. Otherwise the player

If a character fails his roll in a dangerous and GM can just decide what resources were situation he takes a Wound (or d4 Wounds consumed in the encounter.

with a Critical Failure). If he's the driver of a vehicle, it takes a Wound (or d4 with a Critical

Example: Night at

Failure). Wounds may be Soaked as usual.
Success means the hero emerges with only Bumps & Bruises (page 125), and a raise means he escapes unscathed.

the Museum
Red and Gabe must break into a museum, steal an ancient book, and stop a global conspiracy that threatens all of humanity.

Nonlethal Encounters

The group decides to play out the break-in

If the encounter isn't physically dangerous, as a Quick Encounter. Red plans to use

failure means the hero doesn't contribute to Thievery to break into the museum, take the

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

the party's overall success somehow. Critical manuscript, then escape out the back. Gabe

Failure means she suffers social stigma, will Support her using Hacking as she runs

loses or breaks a piece of vital equipment, into trouble.

is positively identified, or gets the wrong information. This likely means moving on to a second stage of the encounter as she deals with the fallout of her errors.

The GM decides Red's Thievery roll is at -2 to get into the museum. Gabe tries to turn off cameras and unlock security doors as she goes, Supporting her Thievery roll with

Success & Failure
In general, narration and individual actions determine the success or failure of an encounter. If the hacker can't get past a building's security measures, for example, and the GM decides it shuts down the operation rather than complicating it, the encounter fails. In other words, let the story tell the tale.
In a more dynamic situation such as combat, assume the group "wins" if there are at least as many total successes (one for each success and raise) as there are player characters. They get the information, drive off their foes, complete the mission, or avert (or escape) the crisis. Support rolls don't count as successes.
If there are fewer successes than player characters, they fail. Specifics are up to the Game Master, but might mean the party has to fall back or retreat from their foes, their prey escapes, they don't get the object or data they were looking for, they survive the

Hacking. He gets one success and adds +1 to his friend's roll.
Red manages a single success, but since there are two player characters and the rules say they need at least as many successes as there are characters, they fail.
The GM says several night watchmen are alerted by the pair's actions and begin prowling through the museum. Red and Gabe can continue if they want, but the encounter is now more difficult (-2). The GM also says it's now "dangerous" as the guards are armed and nervous.
With the fate of the world at stake, the heroes agree to press on. Red now uses Stealth to avoid the guards. Gabe gives up on Hacking, borrows some clothing from a passing tourist, and knocks on the door, pretending to be lost! The GM tells him to use Performance and he rolls a 21! Both characters are successful, so the ancient manuscript is secured!

crisis but can't save most of the bystanders, and so on.

" R eally loved the Hawaiian

Shir t. Nice touch!"

--R ed

135

SAVAGE WORLDS

Setting Rules
Savage Worlds range from dark and gritty detective tales to cinematic epics to political thrillers. These rules provide a great framework for anything you want to do, but adding the right Setting Rules really brings the world and the action to life!
When to Use These Rules: Setting Rules accommodate different play styles and help emulate genres or tropes of established settings -- like those of a book or movie that's inspired you. This lets you easily tweak the rules to make a gritty crime drama more bloody, or an adventurous space romp more fun -- all without changing the core of the game.
The Basics: Each Setting Rule is different. Some apply during character creation while others tweak combat, skills, or even Benny use in some way.
Born A Hero
Heroes may ignore the Rank qualifications for Edges during character creation. They must still meet any other Require ments as usual. The usual rules for Rank Requirements apply afterward.
Conviction
Conviction is a special award granted when a character experiences a great victory or catastrophic misfortune. If possible, use a themed token to note the award; maybe a Marshal's Badge for Deadlands, a Benny of a different color, a toy doubloon for 50 Fathoms, and so on.
Conviction can be spent to add a d6 to all a character's Trait and damage totals until the beginning of her next turn. This die can Ace, and its result is added to the final total.

Conviction tokens aren't Bennies and can't be used as such. They are kept between sessions, however.
A character may maintain Conviction from round to round by spending a Benny (at the start of his turn, before it runs out). Once Conviction lapses, however, the effect ends.
Triumph and Tragedy
Conviction is granted for personal triumph and tragedy, drawing on a character's entire background, including -- but not limited to -- his Edges and Hindrances.
Savage settings may also grant Conviction for certain world-specific actions or events.
Triumph: Characters gain Conviction when they overcome significant obstacles core to their overall goals and motivations. This might mean defeating powerful enemies, saving a true love, or overcoming some great mystery or problem.
The victory should be an achievement over and above the usual. A vampire hunter in Rippers shouldn't get Conviction every time he kills a vampire, for example,
but he might when he wipes out an entire coven or slays a powerful master vamp
ire. A super hero might gain Conviction when she saves her true love from a death trap or the clutches of a powerful villain. She wouldn't earn it just because her boyfriend is in a dangerous encounter.
Tragedy: Some of the most interesting heroes of fiction, film, and legend spend as much time battling their personal demons as they do fighting their foes. Eventually these same issues give them strength as they work through their grief or overcome obstacles to rise once more against
the challenges they face.
When a character experiences a significant personal loss or destructive event, and the GM
feels it's appropriate, he gains Conviction. The death

136

of a loved one or close friend (including a party member he was close to), losing an important job, giving in to harmful character flaws and vices, being removed from a case or quest, or getting framed for a crime are all classic examples of heroic tragedy.
These might happen in the course of the game, but players should also proactively suggest their own ideas to the Game Master. Consider your hero's backstory and occasionally look for ways to do what your favorite authors do to their characters -- torture them! Think about what's important to them and threaten it or take it away. Most of the time this should be done as a quick narrative tale or a scene with a little interaction and roleplaying so as not to distract from the main campaign or the other players' time, but occasionally it might inspire a side-trek or adventure to regain -- or avenge!--whatever was lost.
Note that earning Conviction for harmful behavior is motivation for players in a game to occasionally spotlight their character's dark side. It is not an endorsement or rationalization of poor conduct in the real world.

Creative Combat
Tests make a game even more exciting and memorable. Creative Combat enhances a pulp-style game with additional benefits for those who Test with a raise.
A successful Test (page 108) works as usual, but if a Wild Card character succeeds with a raise while in combat, her foe is not automatically Shaken -- she rolls on the Creative Combat table instead:

CREATIVE COMBAT

2D6 RESULT

Second Wind: The foe's reaction gives

your hero hope or allows her to catch

2

her breath. She may remove a level of Fatigue or a Wound (her choice). If

she doesn't have Fatigue or Wounds,

the enemy is Shaken instead.

3

Inspiration: Fate favors the bold. The clever hero receives a Benny.

4­5

Double Whammy: The target is both Distracted and Vulnerable.

6­8 Shaken: The foe is Shaken.

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

Example: Red's Rage
Emily is Red, a fighter in a fantasy campaign. She has "anger management issues" but didn't take the Mean Hindrance because she's had her problem under control for a year or so. But it's a fun part of her backstory and Emily loves roleplaying constantly managing her character's temper.
Unfortunately, Red and her constant ally Gabe failed in their last adventure. Emily decides this is a good time for Red to go on a rampage. She narrates a story about going into town and terrorizing everyone in sight with her surly attitude. During the course of a "bad day," she breaks a window, turns over an apple cart, and even insults a friar's mule!
The GM loves Emily's story and awards her a point of Conviction. In the game, Red is barred from the local tavern, has to pay for all the damage she caused, and is refused help by the friar (the town's only healer!) until she performs some act of penance (a new quest!)
More importantly, Emily told a story about her heroine's tragic flaw -- and has a point of Conviction to carry her through the next chapter of her quest.

9­10 11 12

Setback: The target suffers a setback of some sort. She might fall off a ledge, lose the confidence of her minions (who then desert her), take a rash but foolish action, or simply lose her next turn as she attempts to recover from whatever situation she finds herself in.
Insight: The hero has new insight into the target's nature. Once during this encounter, she may add +d6 to any Trait roll made to directly attack, affect, or damage the same foe. If rolled a second time in the same encounter, the foe is Shaken instead.
Seize the Moment: After the hero resolves this turn, she immediately gets an entire additional turn. This includes movement as well! She may use the turn to go on Hold if she wishes.

"Otohh!inFgusnr! Tehailslycawnilmd!a" ke



--The G M

137

SAVAGE WORLDS

Dumb Luck
Dumb Luck allows a player to spend a Benny even after a Critical Failure. The failure still happens in some way, but the character can spend one Benny (and only one) for one more roll. The hero still drops her weapon, flubs her Taunt, or otherwise "fails" the attempt--but if the reroll from the Benny is actually successful, it somehow still results in whatever success the new roll provides.
A character trying to pick a lock might break the lock on a Critical Failure, for example, but only after cracking the lock. Or a warrior who fumbles a Fighting roll might hit a foe as if he'd thrown the weapon!
The player and Game Master should work together to describe the scene in some fun or bizarre way that explains how the mishap ultimately results in success.
Example: Red fires three shots from her submachine gun (Rate of Fire 3). She rolls a 1 on her Wild Die and two of her Shooting dice--a Critical Failure! The GM decides the sudden recoil makes her drop her gun.
Red's player, Emily, calls on Dumb Luck and spends a Benny. The reroll results in two hits (one with a raise!). The GM says the weapon bounces on the ground and sprays randomly, hitting two of Red's foes!
Dynamic Backlash
A Critical Failure on an arcane skill check results in Fatigue (described on page 151). That works well in traditional fantasy settings or worlds where magic is relatively common. If you feel magic should come with a higher price, however, use this table instead.
Example: Gabe is a techno-sorceror in some farflung science fiction world. He rolls a Critical Failure when casting lower Trait against an enemy's Agility. Gabe's player rolls Backfire on the Dynamic Backlash table so it affects his friend Red instead.
Red's Agility suddenly drops two die types, forcing the warrior to go on the defensive until the power wears off.

DYNAMIC BACKLASH

2D6 EFFECT

Catastrophe: Something goes terribly wrong. The GM must decide what, but some ideas are a new and permanent Minor Hindrance, the inability to use powers for several days, or an explosion of some sort. The backlash should be thematic if possible. If the hero tampers 2 with dark forces for his abilities, for example, he might become corrupted or summon something sinister into the world. If he's a weird scientist the device might explode for 3d6 damage in a Medium Blast Template, or he might develop a Quirk, Phobia, or other "madness."

Backfire: The power succeeds as with a

raise but affects a different target with

the worst possible results. A bolt hits a

random friend, boost Trait increases an

3

enemy's skill or attribute, etc. If there's no likely target, he's Stunned instead.

If the power has a Duration other than

Instant, it lasts its full term and can only

be negated by dispel (the caster can't

voluntarily end it herself).

Short Circuit: The power fails but the

4­5

Power Points allocated to it are spent, along with an additional 1d6 Power

Points.

Stunned: The caster is Stunned (see page 106). She subtracts 2 from arcane 6­8 skill rolls for the rest of the encounter (the penalty remains ­2 even if she gets this result again).

9­10

Overload: The character's synapses crackle and overload with power. He takes 2d6 damage plus the cost of the power in Power Points, including any Power Modifiers the player declared.

11 Fatigue: The character suffers Fatigue.

Overcharge: The power draws ambient

12

energy from the air, automatically suc ceeding against the target with a raise

and costing the caster no Power Points!

Fanatics
Use this rule in pulp-style games where henchmen are numerous and villains are larger than life.
When a Wild Card enemy character is hit by a successful attack and the GM thinks it's appropriate, one of his henchmen, goons, or other allies jumps in front of his master and takes the attack instead.

138

Fast Healing
Wild Cards make natural healing rolls once per day instead of every five days (or once per hour if the species has Regeneration).
Bumps & Bruises: Wild Cards recover one level of Fatigue from Bumps & Bruises (page 125) every four hours instead of the usual 24.
Gritty Damage
This variation on damage works well for settings such as gritty detective scenarios or "realistic" military adventures. It can be very lethal so use it cautiously.
Whenever a Wild Card takes a Wound, roll on the Injury Table and apply the results immediately (but roll only once per incident regardless of how many Wounds are actually caused). A hero who takes two Wounds from an attack, for example, rolls once on the Injury Table.
Injuries sustained in this way are cured when the Wound is healed. Injuries sustained via Incapacitation may be temporary or permanent as usual.

A Shaken character who's Shaken a second time (from damage) receives a Wound as usual but does not roll on the Injury Table.
Example: Gabe is a Hellfighter (soldier) during Weird War One. He takes a Wound from a German sniper and rolls on the Injury Table. He rolls a 10--Leg. The GM rolls a die and decides it's the left leg, so he has the Slow (Minor) Hindrance. If he takes another Wound to that leg, the Hindrance becomes Major. Further Wounds to the same leg add to his Wound total as usual but have no further effect.
Later, Gabe takes two Wounds to the Guts. The Game Master rolls once and gets the Battered result from the Injury Table, reducing the Sarge's Vigor from d8 to d6. Gabe now has three Wounds and two gruesome injuries.
Hard Choices
Use this rule for more dramatic and gritty games. The GM and her Wild Card characters don't start with Bennies, but every time the players spend one it goes into her pool where it can be used for any of her characters. If this rule is in play, Jokers no longer grant Bennies to either side.

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

139

SAVAGE WORLDS

Heroes Never Die
Heroes in movies very rarely die. When they do, they go down fighting or perform one last, epic act of heroism.
With this rule in play, Wild Cards who are Incapacitated from a damage roll make a Vigor roll as usual but treat Critical Failures as regular failures and ignore the rules for Bleeding Out.
How a hero might survive what should be certain death is a chance to get creative. An adventurer who falls from a towering cliff, for example, might land in a pool of water or crash through the branches of a forest far below.
If the situation is particularly heroic or if it serves as a major story point, the GM and player can decide the character perishes. A hero who confronts a massive demon on a crumbling bridge, for example, might take the fiend with him with his final blow.
Villains: The reverse is also true --villains rarely die either! Heroes should play this in the spirit it's intended-- they shouldn't attempt to cause some sort of gruesome and undeniable death to a villain who falls into their hands, for example. They should instead turn the captive over to the authorities -- even though they know full well he will eventually escape to plague them once again.
High Adventure
Characters can spend a Benny to gain the one-time use of a Combat Edge. They have to meet the Rank and any Edge requirements as usual but can ignore Trait requirements. Multiple Bennies can be spent in one round for multiple Edges, either for different effects or in order to meet a needed requirement to gain another Edge.
More Skill Points
Thanks to technology and improved education, characters in modern and futuristic settings have 15 skill points at character creation rather than 12. This helps them take Driving, Electronics, and other skills common in the modern world.

It's up to the GM if this makes sense in her particular setting. A futuristic but "savage" world of planetary romance probably doesn't need it, but it works well for most anything set in the developed world from about 1950 on, hard scifi, or "exploration" scifi like The Last Parsec.
Multiple Languages
Some settings feature characters and cultures who typically speak many different languages. If this Setting Rule is in play, all characters have the Linguist Edge for free (page 40), and ignore its usual Requirements.
A character who actually takes the Linguist Edge knows a number of languages equal to her Smarts (instead of half her Smarts).
No Power Points
Instead of using Power Points, characters with Arcane Backgrounds simply choose the power they want to activate and make an arcane skill roll. The penalty to the roll is the power's total cost in Power Points (base cost plus all Modifiers), divided by 2. Round up.
Casting protection (1 point) with Additional Recipients (+1) and the Hurry modifier (+1), for example, has a cost of 3 Power Points. Half rounded up is 2.
Success means the power activates as usual. A raise grants any additional bonuses stated in its description.
Failure means all current powers are canceled and the caster is Shaken. Critical Failure results in B acklash (page 151).
Maintaining Powers: Characters can main tain those powers that allow it as long as desired, but each one maintained inflicts a -1 to all further arcane skill rolls.
Power Preparation: A caster may prepare powers by concentrating for an entire round (no movement or other actions and must not be Shaken or Stunned). If successful, he ignores 2 points of penalties on all powers cast on his next turn. If he does not enact any powers on his next turn, the preparation is lost.

140

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

Skill Specialization

Unarmored Hero

Savage Worlds skills are intended to be broad, allowing characters to focus primarily on Edges for customization rather than multiple iterations of something like Fighting for edged weapons, Fighting for blunt weapons, etc.
If it's important to have more detail for some reason, the GM can decide some skills require specialization. A character chooses one particular use of that skill to roll normally, and subtracts 2 from the total when using it in any other way.
Gaining an additional specialization counts as raising a skill below its linked Attribute. So a character can gain two new specializations with an Advance, or mix and match to gain a specialization and increase a skill below its linked Attribute.
Below are skills appropriate for this extra detail and some example specializations:
 BOATING: Powered, Sail, Steam.  DRIVING: Hover, Tracked, Wheeled.  FIGHTING: Axe, Blunt Weapon, Exotic
(such as nunchaku; each is separate), Long Blade, Pole Arm, Short Blade.  PILOTING: Fixed Wing, Rotary, Space.  RIDING: Camel, Horse, Dragon.  SCIENCE: Biology, Chemistry, Engineering.  SHOOTING: Bows, Pistol, Rifle, Shotgun.  SURVIVAL: Arctic, Desert, Temperate.

Pulp action tales often feature heroes with little or no armor defeating far more heavily armored adversaries.
In these settings, if a Wild Card chooses not to wear any armor (ignoring shields), he adds +2 bonus to his Soak rolls!
Wound Cap
Use this Setting Rule when you want combat to remain dangerous but reduce the chances of characters (and villains!) dying from a single lucky blow. It can still happen, but it is far more rare.
Characters can never suffer more than four Wounds in a single hit and therefore never have to Soak more than four wounds either.
Large Creatures: The Wound Cap applies even to creatures with more than three Wounds (due to their Scale or the Resilient/ Very Resilient Special Ability, both explained in Chapter Six). A Huge creature that can take five Wounds, for example, can't take more than four from a single attack, so it can't normally be killed with a single attack. The GM can always overrule this in specific and obvious situations, of course, such as massive blasts, falling from towering cliffs or mountains, etc.

141

SAVAGE WORLDS

Setting Rule Checklist
Use the following list to choose the Setting Rules for your game, coloring in the dots so everyone in the group knows which rules are in effect.
O BORN A HERO: Player characters ignore Rank requirements for Edges during character creation.
O CONVICTION: Heroes gain Conviction Tokens that can be used to add a d6 to all Trait and damage rolls for one round. Conviction is awarded for triumph (overcoming a great obstacle important to that character), and tragedy (a personal setback, death of a friend or ally, etc). Conviction effects may be extended by spending a Benny.
O CREATIVE COMBAT: A raise on a Test allows the character to roll on a special table that grants additional effects.
O DUMB LUCK: Characters may spend a Benny after a Critical Failure, allowing another chance for success in unusual and unexpected ways.
O DYNAMIC BACKLASH: A Critical Failure on an arcane skill roll forces the player to roll on a special table with various chaotic results.
O FANATICS: Enemy thugs take the damage for their masters. O FAST HEALING: Characters make natural healing rolls once per day instead of every
five days, and recover a level of Fatigue from Bumps & Bruises every four hours instead of every day. O GRITTY DAMAGE: When Wild Cards take a Wound, they roll on the Injury Table and apply the results. O HARD CHOICES: The GM's characters only get Bennies when the heroes spend theirs. O HEROES NEVER DIE: Heroes and named villains rarely actually die but return in some way after being defeated. O HIGH ADVENTURE: Spend a Benny to gain the one-time use of a Combat Edge. O MORE SKILL POINTS: Player characters in advanced or specialized settings start with 15 skill points. O MULTIPLE LANGUAGES: Characters know half their Smarts die type in different languages at d6. O NO POWER POINTS: Those with arcane backgrounds don't track Power Points but instead subtract half the listed Power Point cost (round up) from their skill roll to activate the ability. Powers may be maintained as desired at a -1 penalty to all further arcane skill rolls. O SKILL SPECIALIZATION: Characters choose a specialization for each skill and subtract 2 when using other variations. O UNARMORED HERO: Wild Cards without armor add +2 to their Soak rolls. O WOUND CAP: Wild Cards never suffer more than four wounds from a single hit.

 142

w"IhksenhnoowuI'lmwdhrparutniSnnteinttgthifneosgerRatunhldeesfoiwtlleh'eirnretshusseoindtgoht."esy--The G M

Social Conflict

impassioned roleplaying might add +1 to +4. An insult or faux pas inflicts a similar penalty.

Hindrances should also be considered.

Not every conflict is won by the blade. Successful oratory can topple nations.

Convincing a jury that an Outsider (Major) is innocent of a crime, for example, carries a -2 penalty.

When to Use These Rules: Most social

exchanges are a simple skill roll resisted by the appropriate Trait, such as Intimidation or Persuasion vs. Spirit. For longer interactions, such as the back and forth of a long argument, negotiation, or a legal proceeding, the following system adds some drama and structure to each side's discussion. (The GM might use a Dramatic Task instead if the argument must be won in a hurry!)
The Basics: Characters make arguments back and forth over three rounds, roll their appropriate skills, then consult the Conflict Results table (below) to see how well they've influenced their audience.

Results
At the end of the third round, the speaker looks up her total Influence Tokens on the Social Conflict Results table below.
Trials: Run trials and similar conflicts from the accuser's point of view since they must usually prove the accused's guilt. If the player characters are the defenders, they oppose the prosecution and must keep them from gaining Influence Tokens with the judge (baron, king, warlord, etc.).
Accusers in a trial must get at least three tokens to convict. Lesser or greater results indicate the degree of punishment based on

Conflict Rounds

the setting's customs and laws.

The conflict is broken down into three rounds of conversation, each focusing on a particular point (or a few highly connected points).
During each round, the player roleplays her character's argument and makes a Persuasion roll opposed by the Spirit of whoever she's trying to convince. If a rival argues against her, the roll is opposed by his Persuasion instead.
Each success and raise by the petitioner grants her an "Influence Token" (rivals don't gain tokens, they just oppose the petitioner and keep her from gaining them).
Modifiers: Persuasion rolls should be modi fied by the situation as the GM sees fit. A hero trying to convince a scientist of a fact within his field rolls the lowest of his Persuasion or Science. A particularly brilliant argument or

Example: To Arms!
Red must convince a baron to send troops to the defense of a neighboring fiefdom. The barony has warred with his neighbor for generations so the GM decides that's a -4 penalty to Red's Persuasion rolls.
Worse, she's opposed by his slimy wizard, who argues against the idea every round (he opposes her Persuasion rolls).
Red gets lucky the first round and gets a success and raise. That's two Influence Tokens. She fails on the second, but gets one more in the third.
That's three tokens in total. The baron agrees but requires payment in land from his neighbor in return for sending part of his army to his rival's defense.

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

SOCIAL CONFLICT RESULTS

TOKENS RESULTS

0

Pleas are denied and negotiations fail. Discussions may reopen if new information is presented or favors are performed. In a trial, the defendant is acquitted.

1­3

The target isn't truly convinced, but provides the minimum amount of support possible. In a trial, the defendant receives the minimum penalty.

The arbiter is reasonably convinced or willing to help. He grants the aid requested, more or 4­5 less, but only under certain conditions or in exchange for payment, tasks, favors, etc. The
prosecution is successful with typical sentencing in a trial.

6+

The target is eager to help or agree. He gives more than expected in a negotiation or provides more support than requested. A defendant is convicted with the maximum penalty.

143

SAVAGE WORLDS

Travel
Many epic tales feature trips across great expanses. Adventurers might endure a long voyage across the endless seas of 50 Fathoms or ride the dusty trails of Deadlands: The Weird West.
Below are some guidelines to help you figure out how long these journeys take and what dramatic events might happen along the way.
When to Use These Rules: If it doesn't matter how long the trip takes, skip all this. Narrate the journey, maybe do an Interlude (page 130), and get to the next scene. If you need to know how long the trip takes, or want to insert an obstacle or encounter of some sort, use the information below as a guideline.
The Basics: The mode of travel determines how many miles the group makes per day.
Travel Times
The rates below assume reasonable terrain and weather. Difficult conditions can drastically decrease progress (or increase it in the case of sailing with strong winds).

Encounters
If an area is dangerous or lawless, draw a card from the Action Deck once per day (or even two or three times a day in particularly dangerous areas). A face card or higher represents an encounter, and the card suit can be used to determine the type.
Draw twice more if the card is a Joker and combine the results -- such as Enemies and an Obstacle or Strangers and Treasure.
Game Masters are highly encouraged to customize encounters based on their setting.
 SPADES--ENEMIES: Monsters, enemies, or hostile beasts bar the way. Perhaps they lie in ambush if it's a popular path, waiting for the next band of unwary travelers.
 HEARTS--STRANGERS: The group comes upon neutral or friendly nonplayer charac ters such as merchants, lost travelers, a guide, or even other adventurers.
 DIAMONDS --TREASURE: Somewhere along the way is something of value --the hulk of a crashed ship with some remaining supplies waiting to be scavenged, a cache of useful or valuable minerals, or a magic item for sale or guarded by someone or something.

AVERAGE TRAVEL TIMES

TRANSPORT

MILES/8 HOUR DAY

Foot

24

Horse

30

Early Car

200

Modern Car

400

 CLUBS--OBSTACLE: The heroes encounter an obstacle of some kind and must figure out how to circumvent it. Some examples are a flooded river, minefields, a decaying rope bridge, whirlpool, etc. The obstacle might also be defended by creatures or enemies as well.

Sailing Ship* Steam Ship* Steam Train Modern Passenger Train Prop Plane Commercial Jet

30 40 60 400 1,000 4,000

*S ailing ships (and steam ships to a lesser degree) are greatly affected by currents and winds. Strong winds or currents in the right direction allow them to travel about 60 miles per day. Poor winds or going against the current reduces them to 20 miles per day or less.

Example: Irradiated Wastes
Red and Gabe are wasteland warriors in Deadlands: Hell on Earth, traversing an area outside of Las Vegas, Nevada, that's been blasted by nuclear "ghost rock" bombs.
The GM draws a Jack of Clubs and decides the area is now a maze of jagged "glass chasms" and toxic sinkholes. This slows progress to a crawl for two days and makes them both roll for Fatigue from heat and radiation (see the Hazards section, page 125).
The GM draws again later that day and gets a Queen of Spades. From one of the sinkholes slithers a swarm of irradiated serpents, hungry for fresh prey.

144

Wealth
The fight against evil can sometimes be expensive! The system here makes managing money in the game a bit easier and occasion ally dramatic.
When to Use These Rules: Use the Wealth system if you want a quick and easy way of handling financial resources without tracking actual currency.

Poor Or Rich Characters
Wealth is only permanently increased by Rewards or the Rich Edge. It's decreased through use and the Poverty Hindrance. Those with the Poverty Hindrance have a d4 Wealth. Rich characters have a d8, and Filthy Rich heroes have a d10.
Heroes with the Fame Edge add +1 to their Wealth rolls or +2 if they're Famous. Not only do they tend to have more money, but people love to give discounts to celebrities.

THE ADVENTURE TOOL KIT

The Basics: Characters have a new statistic called Wealth they can use to buy things. It increases when they're rewarded and decreases after significant purchases.
Buying Things
Each character has a d6 in Wealth, which represents average, middle class resources for the setting. This isn't a Trait, but acts like one--players may spend Bennies when checking it, get their Wild Die, and benefit from allies' Support.
When a hero wants to buy something mundane, she does so -- no roll is required. If the item is more than about $10 × her Wealth die, or she's made numerous recent trivial purchases, she must make a Wealth roll. The GM should add bonuses for savings or deals, subtract penalties for expensive purchases, or rule out all-together purchases beyond the character's means.
Critical Failure means the buyer can't scrape up the needed funds at the moment but may try again the next week, or after he obtains one or more Rewards (see below). With a regular failure, the buyer can either forgo the expense or she can buy it but goes broke regardless of her Wealth die (see below).
Success means she purchases the item but her Wealth is reduced a die type until the GM feels her finances are restored by time or Rewards. A raise means she buys the item without reducing her Wealth.

Support Rolls
Other characters may Support a hero's Wealth roll, but assume the same risks as the buyer (losing a die type in Wealth with success, for example).
Availability
If an item isn't commonly available, finding it on the black market, via a private dealer, or in an internet chat room requires the Research skill or Networking (page 133).
The GM can also simply decide the item isn't available or she can assign a modifier to the hero's roll as she sees fit. Finding a firearm in modern-day Europe, for example, is at least a -4 penalty, with serious consequences if the roll is failed.
Rewards
Getting paid for a job or finding treasure increases the characters' Wealth die one step for an average task, two for a particularly lucrative reward, or three for a very great reward.
Rewards and cost of living are relative, so the increase lasts only for a month of game time or until the GM thinks the party's lifestyle, carousing, or general living expenses restores it to normal.
Negotiating

Going Broke
If a hero's Wealth would be reduced below d4, she's dead broke. She has basic food, water, and shelter (unless the GM and the situation dictate otherwise), but otherwise can't buy luxury foods, transportation, or even ammo.

Players love to negotiate with those who hire them, but an increase in cash rarely means anything in actual gameplay. Using this system means a successful negotiation, as well as bounties and rewards, gives them a tangible bonus to their finances.
At least for a while!

145

Chapter Five
Powers

Most Savage Worlds settings feature "magic" in one form or another. Whether it's hidden occult lore practiced only by dark cultists, voodoo rituals, the eldritch sorcery of powerful wizards, weird gadgets created by mad scientists, super powers, or brainburning psionics, these rules handle it all in one simple system.
For ease of use, we call all of these effects "powers." They work the same from game to game, but the particular use, modifiers, and Trappings give the same core powers endless variations.
Arcane Backgrounds
Start by choosing one of the Arcane Back ground Edges available in your campaign. Five different types are presented in this book: Gifted, Magic, Miracles, Psionics, and Weird Science.
Each type has the following entries:
 ARCANE SKILL: Each type of power has a particular arcane skill listed in its description. Take this skill and buy it just like any other on the skill list. The attribute to which the skill is linked is listed in parentheses beside the skill itself.
 STARTING POWERS: The number of powers a hero starts with at character creation. Additional abilities may be learned with the New Powers Edge (page 47). The player

and Game Master can decide if there's a narrative reason for this (a cleric is given a revelation, a wizard finds an old spellbook) or it's simply an evolution of her abilities.  POWER POINTS: The number of Power Points the character starts with when she chooses an Arcane Background. A hero increases her Power Points by taking the Power Points Edge (page 47).
Versatility
yyTsoyohusuetbevcmeeacrnosaamiltmlioeliawftgaysminoyifeloitauuhrestwioSniagtevhmathginueeldWasitafoefmrelardenesnypptoogwwweaneeyrrrsess. wpagoaEo"mwrlmilgdeeihrsl,y.tio"tSlfbihtkerteaechposuempstooeienrssdgpsael--marlyaiitsstehaegroelpnosaswwelharosedvrrwdeinss.iwt. hinIontrhfdaaenwhstcaoiitslfhyyi amemn"Niaegfgrarhegittceey'zbtsefoerwgomhiumuzonarr"lhredfiwosriefinhteahazantitnfihdnagesnk.tsbeaIaornselmtyrsa-estosyepfctpotidfiewniewggevraahu.msosteaeust,siihnecesge pcnntohoAearewwmesyemeyarcsonfeauaudcnnlh,gdidafneandottsei,ettcros,yseca.oskrTntuinipdhnoticgfiswaouvnwnnets.hrigttsehihavpoateiutolimtwtthyceaehirkmsaseenatxdghntiiredfnemfgemwrfteehehlneayeltt

147

SAVAGE WORLDS

Arcane Background (Gifted) Arcane Background

 ARCANE SKILL: Focus (Spirit)

(Psionics)

 STARTING POWERS: 1  POWER POINTS: 15 The character has innate abilities that don't fit into the usual tropes of magic, miracles, or psionics. Their powers may be low-level super powers, divine gifts, or even alien abilities, and are often very unusual or unique for their setting.
Arcane Background (Magic)

 ARCANE SKILL: Psionics (Smarts)
 STARTING POWERS: 3
 POWER POINTS: 10
Psionicists tap into their own mental energy to manipulate matter, read minds, and far more. Some are agents in the employ of a vast government agency, while others are often on the run from them! Some may have years of training or they might have developed their incredible powers in isolation.

 ARCANE SKILL: Spellcasting (Smarts)  STARTING POWERS: 3  POWER POINTS: 10

Arcane Background (Weird Science)

Magicians range from powerful wizards to vile cultists. They draw on raw supernatural energy to fuel their eldritch fires. This energy infuses the worlds in which they live, and is drawn forth with gestures, words of power, or ancient runes.
Arcane Background (Miracles)

 ARCANE SKILL: Weird Science (Smarts)
 STARTING POWERS: 2
 POWER POINTS: 15
Weird scientists use strange and powerful inventions beyond the normal technological level of the setting. Such creations might be possible due to super fuels, alien discoveries, or the raw intellect of rare super-geniuses who push the boundaries of science.

 ARCANE SKILL: Faith (Spirit)

A weird scientist's Trappings (see page

 STARTING POWERS: 3

150) must always include the item they're

 POWER POINTS: 10

associated with. The burst power might manifest through a magical flamethrower in

Those who invoke miracles draw their power Deadlands: The Weird West, for instance, while

from a divine presence of some sort, including "Dr. Gabriel's Wondrous Restorative Elixir!"

gods, nature, or spirits. Their powers are is a healing potion.

usually invoked with a few words of prayer or by performing established rituals.

Weird scientists must have their devices at hand to activate their powers (but see Jury

Those who cast miracles are champions Rig, below).

of their particular religions. They typically have Hindrances that pertain to their service, such as Vow or Obligation. They might also have Connections to others of their religion who can help them out when their divine energies wane.

Other characters can't activate the inventor's creations. They might not understand the strange mechanisms required to make it work, the device might not be "calibrated" or portioned for other users, or it might just "fritz out" for anyone but the creator. While

"I cast smite on my long swor d. Now it 's a FLAMING long swor d. It g oes better with my hair ." --R ed

this may seem a bit strange narratively, the "magic" -- and the Power Points -- come from the inventor so he must be the one to activate it.
Creating devices for others is possible--it just requires an Arcane Device, see page 153 and the Artificer Edge (page 45).

148

Powers

The inventor can use his devices on others, of course, including administering drinks from his magical elixirs or giving them injections of some miraculous super serum he's created. If Dr. Gabriel administers his elixir, for example, he rolls to activate the power normally. If he gives someone the bottle to use later, they'll find it's lost its potency.
Jury Rig: Weird scientists must usually activate their powers through their assigned device, but they can improvise other ways if needed at a -2 penalty. This requires a decent rationale relative to the setting and the GM's permission.
Example: Gabe is captured by evil aliens and all his equipment is taken. He's placed in a holding cell and decides he'll use the overhead lights and whatever the aliens use for electricity to create a makeshift blast. The GM agrees this will work, but only once since it will destroy the lights and short out the cell's energy in the process.

Multiple Arcane Backgrounds
Though it should be rare, the Game Master might allow a character to take multiple Arcane Backgrounds in her setting. With her permission, treat each Arcane Background as its own set, adding powers, Power Points, and buying appropriate skills separately.
Supers
True "four color" super heroes are beyond the scope of these powers. See the Savage Worlds Super Powers Companion for a fast, fun, and compreh ensive treatment of super powers, from street-level crime fighters to cosmic champions!

"One p4o0wmeregeadw, patlats, mraepgeuanticnogm, cinogldupf!u"sion-

--G abe

149



SAVAGE WORLDS

Trappings
Trappings allow the core powers presented in this chapter to have many different appearances. They usually have no game effect on their own, but are important for atmosphere and theme.
One character might fire a swarm of bees to attack her foes, for example, while another shoots red lasers from her eyes. Both are examples of the bolt power and share the same mechanics, but they look and are described differently.
Trappings do matter when an obstacle or opponent has a particular strength or weakness. If an ice troll suffers +4 damage from fire- or heat-based attacks, for example, a blast a player describes as a fireball counts as a fire attack and does +4 damage.
Once described, a power's Trappings don't change without the Wizard Edge, page 47, or an Advance -- see below.
A character can alter the power's effects as she wishes using the Power Modifiers on page 152.
More on Trappings
Trappings allow an endless variety of powers and the sources of those powers. Sometimes that might produce some strange results, so the player and GM must use common sense to figure out any inconsistencies. Here's an example.
Gabe is an alchemist in a fantasy game. He decides his blast power manifests as a bag of small, explosive pots he hurls like grenades.
Blast has a Range of Smarts ×2. With a d8 Smarts, that's 16 with no Range penalties. This is sometimes better than using Athletics to throw an actual grenade, which has Range penalties at 10 and 20." That's okay-- Gabe's player has to track and use Power Points. Another character with traditional grenades doesn't, but must contend with Range modifiers.

Synergy
Sometimes logic dictates a power's Trapping should have some additional effect. Zapping someone with a lightning bolt while they're standing in water should cause additional damage, for example, or less if they're wearing a rubber hazmat suit.
When this occurs, the GM can decide there's synergy that either increases or decreases the effect or damage (GM's call) by +2 or -2.
Oppositional forces, such as fire and ice or light and darkness, don't have synergy against one another (though such effects are sometimes accounted for in some creatures' Special Abilities). If a fire blast hits ice armor (protection), for example, there's no synergy because they cancel each other out.
Limitations
Sometimes a power's Trapping imposes a limitation on the power. This gives the power focus at the expense of versatility, reducing the strain it causes the caster. The Limitation is permanent and always in effect unless changed with an Advance as noted below.
Each limitation placed upon the power reduces its total Power Point cost by one (to a minimum of 1). If this would normally reduce the cost to 0, you gain a +1 bonus (+2 maximum) to the arcane skill total instead.
 RANGE: The power's Range is reduced to Touch (and its listed Range is greater).
 PERSONAL: The power's Range becomes Self (and has a Range of Touch or the Range Limitation above).
 ASPECT: The character can only access one aspect of a power (that has more than one choice), such as sloth/speed or boost/lower Trait.
Adding & Changing Trappings
A character gets two new powers when he takes the New Powers Edge (page 47). He may instead add Trappings to his powers in place of one or two of the new powers. A hero who takes the New Powers Edge, for example, could choose one new power and add an ice Trapping to her bolt. The GM may also allow a player to change the trapping of existing power when she gains an Advance. This should reflect a major change in the character in some way as determined by the player and GM.

150

Activation
A character activates a power by picking a target within Range and making an arcane skill roll. A roll less than 4 means the power doesn't activate. The caster spends one Power Point regardless of any Edges such as Channeling, unless the ability specifically says it reduces the minimum cost to 0.
A roll of 4 or higher means the power activates and consumes all the Power Points allocated to it, even if it misses the target (such as with bolt), or the defender resists.
Success means the hero spends the Power Points and resolves the power's effects. A raise has additional effects noted in the particular power description.
Backlash: A Critical Failure when activating a power is called Backlash. It causes a level of Fatigue and all currently active powers instantly terminate.
Group Rolls: The GM can choose to make Group Rolls (page 89) when large numbers of nonplayer characters are affected by a power. It's useful to roll damage against each group of like targets separ ately in an Area Effect attack, for example, but to roll sepa rately for those trying to escape an entangle or similar power.
Casting Requirements
A character must be able to see his target and cannot be Bound (see page 98).
Maintaining Powers
It costs 1 Power Point to maintain a power for its base Duration. If a power's Duration is five rounds, for example, it can be maintained for another five rounds for 1 Power Point.

Maintenance is per target but ignores other Power Modifiers, so renewing boost Trait on three allies costs 3 Power Points and extends the effect of each another five rounds.
Unless a power says otherwise, the caster can terminate it as a free action.
Recharging
A character recovers 5 Power Points per hour spent resting, meditating, etc. What constitutes "rest" is up to the GM, but they do not recharge while powers are maintained, or during anything more than mild physical exertion, emotional stress, or mental distraction. A hero can rest while riding a horse, for example, unless the animal is restless, the road is terribly bumpy, traffic requires frequent concentration, etc.
Heroes can also regain Power Points while walking if the conditions are generally favorable and the pace is leisurely.
Powers As Multi-Actions
Each power activated is its own action, and the same or different powers may be cast multiple times as a Multi-Action (see page 103). A wizard in a fantasy setting might open combat by invoking protection and
deflection, for examp le, or a priest might attempt to banish a spirit while invoking smite on his mace.
Shorting
A character may cast a power with fewer Power Points than it requires (whether she has them or not) by increasing the difficulty of her arcane skill roll.
For every Power Point a character will short, she suffers a -1 penalty to the roll. Casting a 3-point healing with 0 Power Points, for example, inflicts a -3 penalty.
Shorting is risky. If a character fails a shorted arcane skill roll, it's consid ered a Critical Failure!

Powers

151

SAVAGE WORLDS

Power Modifiers
Power Modifiers allow characters to customize their abilities, adding a special effect that better reflects her power's Trapping.
Power Modifiers are selected each time a power is activated and may be freely changed each time. An icy bolt might cause Armor Piercing damage in one attack and Lingering Damage in the next.
A number of common modifiers are listed below, and some powers have additional options as well. The number in parentheses is the price in additional Power Points it costs to add the effect.
Casters must declare which modifiers they're using before rolling their arcane skill.
Unless a modifier says otherwise, it may be applied to any power, but only once per casting.
Power Modifiers last for the Duration of the spell, or until the end of the target's next turn in the case of Instant powers.
Armor Piercing (+1 to +3)
The attack is focused to defeat armor or seeks out a foe's exposed areas. Each Power Point spent grants the power AP 2 (see page 65), to a maximum of AP 6.
Fatigue (+2)
Powers that drain or tax an opponent can cause Fatigue. This modifier may be attached to any power that can cause damage or is resisted by the target. If she's affected by the power in any way, she also suffers Fatigue. This cannot cause Incapacitation, however.
Glow/Shroud (+1)
Glow gives off soft light of an appro priate color for its Trapping (or caster's choice). This creates soft light in a Small Blast Template centered on the target, and lasts until the power expires. It subtracts 2 from her Stealth totals and negates 1 point of Illumination penalties for those attacking the glowing character.

Shroud dims and slightly obscures the target so that attacks against her suffer a -1 penalty and she adds +1 to her Stealth rolls.
Heavy Weapon (+2)
The caster pours his energy into the attack, creating a focused blast. The attack counts as a Heavy Weapon.
Hinder/Hurry (+1)
The target is slowed in some way, perhaps due to intense cold, a slippery surface, or even binding matter or energy. His base Pace is reduced by 2 until the power expires.
A caster can Hurry the recipient instead. He might get increased energy, sure footing, or more powerful muscles. His Pace is increased by 2.
Effects of either modifier aren't cumulative.
Lingering Damage (+2)
The target is hit by fire, intense cold, acid, gnawing insects, or some other Trapping that continues to cause damage after the initial attack. On the victim's next turn, he suffers the power's base damage minus one die type (one additional turn only). If hit with a 2d6 bolt, for example, the victim takes 2d4 damage at the start of his next turn. If the base damage is already a d4 die type, it loses a die instead.
Range (+1/+2)
Double the power's listed Range for 1 Power Point, or triple it for +2. This modifier may not be used on powers with a Range of Touch or the Cone Template.
Selective (+1)
With intense focus, the caster can choose not to affect any or all individual targets within a
power's area of effect (picking all enemies instead of allies in a blast, for example).

152

Arcane Devices

Arcane Device Examples

A character with the Artificer Edge can focus items into devices for herself or others. The advantage is that they can be given to and used by allies. The trade-off is that devices take a little preparation to create and can be lost or destroyed.
Devices may be technological in nature, or they might be sacred, enchanted, or psychically powered objects, depending on the creator's Arcane Background.

Dr. Destruction makes an invisibility belt and gives it to one of his minions. He has 20 Power Points and puts 5 of them into the belt, reducing his remaining pool to 15.
When the minion wants to turn invisible, he rolls Dr. Destruction's Weird Science skill. This costs 1 less Power Point than usual because of the belt's Limitation --it must be worn to activate so it has a Range of Touch.

Note: Arcane devices are relatively temp orary creations player characters can create from their powers. Truly permanent "magic" items or devices are setting-specific, don't use Power Points, and are created by the Game Master as she sees fit (such as those found in the Savage Worlds Fantasy Companion).
The No Power Points Setting Rule (page 140) isn't compatible with Arcane Devices.
Creation

Dr. Destruction also gives the minion the bolt power in the form of a ray gun and invests it with 10 Power Points. The minion rolls Shooting to fire it.
The minion suffers Fatigue if he rolls a Critical Failure activating either device.
Once the belt or gun is out of energy, Dr. Destruction can recover the Power Points he invested in it normally (see Recharging, page 151).

Creating a device takes one hour per power that can be activated through it. The player must list which powers are in the device and then allocate Power Points to it. The device can only use the powers and Power Points allocated to it.
Power Points invested in an arcane device are lost to the inventor until they're used or recovered with Tinkering, see below (they don't recharge).

Failure to activate the device costs one Power Point as usual, and a Critical Failure causes the user Fatigue.
Tinkering: A creator can reassign up to five Power Points per action between an arcane device and her own pool. She must be in physical contact with the item to do so. Inventors should lend out their devices very carefully!

Powers

Power Modifiers: A user may spend a device's Power Points as desired, including enabling any applicable Power Modifiers.

Example: Gabe is an alchemist. He makes an "oil of sharpness" Red can rub on her sword to activate the smite power. He invests four Power

Arcane devices may not be Shorted (see Points into it. Red soon finds herself in battle

page 151).

with the undead. She rubs the oil on the blade

Limitations: Arcane devices may benefit from Limitations (see page 150).
Activation: The creator uses his arcane skill as usual. Others use whatever skill is associated with the device's form -- guns use Shooting, grenades use Athletics (throwing), and so on. If there is no other obvious skill, such as for a potion or worn item, the character

and rolls Gabe's Weird Science (since there's no other obvious skill). She fails, which drains the oil of one Power Point. She tries again in the next round and gets a raise, granting her sword +4 damage. Smite normally costs 2 Power Points but Gabe's Trapping has the "Touch" Limitation so it only costs 1 point each time she applies it (see Trappings, page 150).

rolls the inventor's arcane skill as if it were his own (he does not benefit from any of the creator's Edges or other abilities, however).

"HRgeerodn.enB 'saemmVyaElkaRetYseoscmtaecroBenfOcuoO lc...Mtiti!o"'sn ,

--G abe



153

SAVAGE WORLDS

Powers
Listed below are a number of powers available in most Savage Settings. Each power has the following statistics:
Rank: The Rank a character must be to learn the power.
Power Points: The cost to activate the power in Power Points.
Range: The maximum distance between the caster and the power's effect. Range is often expressed as Smarts or some multiple thereof. If so, read Smarts as inches on the tabletop (twice that in yards). A Smarts of d10, for example, means the power can be cast up to 10 (20 yards) away.
Unless the power says otherwise, Range has no effect after the power is activated. An ally who has been granted invisibility, for example, may then move beyond the caster's Smarts with no ill effect.
Duration: How long the power lasts in rounds (unless otherwise noted).
Naming Powers
Players are encouraged to note their powers' Trappings and what the character might call them. A druid in a typical fantasy setting might write down his spells like this, for example:
· Bolt (Splinters --shards of wood) · Boost/Lower Trait (Blessing/Curse of Gaia
--slight healthy or sickly green glow) · Entangle (Entangle -- grasping vines rise
from the earth) · Protection (Bark skin -- skin turns
vaguely bark-like)
A mad scientist in the world of Deadlands: The Weird West might record the exact same powers like this:
· Bolt (Acid gun) · Boost/Lower Trait (Dr. Worthington's
Patented Pep Pills) · Entangle (Dr. Worthington's Fast-Drying
Resin) · Protection (Electrostatic clothing)

Powers expire at the end of the character's turn X rounds later, where X is the Duration listed. Count the round the power activated. If a psychic activates boost Trait (Duration 5) on the second round of combat, for example, it remains in place until the end of her turn on the sixth round.
Powers may be maintained for their base Duration for 1 Power Point per individual.
Unless it says otherwise, the caster can ter minate a power she's activated as a free action. She must terminate the entire power -- she can't leave it on for some and off for others.
Trappings: These are descriptive ideas and suggestions for how the power might look or manifest in different types of settings.
List of Powers
Arcane Protection
Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Concentration, a dull glow
around the protected character, a fetish.
Success with arcane protection means hostile powers suffer a -2 penalty (-4 with a raise) to affect this character. If the hostile power fails to affect the target due to this penalty, it still activates and consumes Power Points (and may still affect other targets). If the power causes harm, damage is also reduced a like amount for the protected target.
Arcane protection stacks with Arcane Resistance should the recipient have both!
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.
Armor
See Protection, page 165
Banish
Rank: Veteran Power Points: 3 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: Holy items, arcane symbols,
handful of salt.

154

Banish sends entities from immaterial planes back to their native dimensions. This includes ghosts, demons, elementals, and similar beings (at the GM's discretion).
Banishing a being is an opposed roll of the caster's arcane skill versus the target's Spirit. Success means the target is Shaken, and each raise causes a Wound.
If this Incapacitates the target it returns to its native plane of existence. Banished entities may return when the Game Master feels it's appropriate, such as the next full moon, when summoned again, or even a few rounds later if it's a particularly powerful creature under the right conditions or in a location of power.
Barrier
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Fire, ice, thorns, force, bones,
energy.
Barrier creates a straight wall 5 (10 yards) long and 1 (two yards) tall, of immobile material that conforms to the surface it's cast upon. Thickness varies depending on what the wall is made of, but is usually a few inches.
The wall has a Hardness of 10 (or 12 with a raise), and may be destroyed as any other object (see Breaking Things on page 98).
When the spell expires or the wall is broken it crumbles to dust or dissipates. Trappings are never left behind.

This spell allows an individual to speak with and guide the actions of nature's beasts. The cost to cast is equal to the sum of their Size (minimum 1 per creature; see the creatures in Chapter Six for examples). Controlling five wolves (Size -1) costs 5 points (remember the minimum cost of 1), for example. Controlling a rhino (Size 5) costs 5 points.
Success means the creatures obey simple commands, like a well-trained dog. They attack foes and endanger their lives for their master. A raise on the arcane skill roll means the beasts are more obedient. They won't kill themselves but overcome their natural fears to follow their orders.
Swarms can also be controlled. Small Swarms cost 1 point, Medium Swarms cost 2, and Large Swarms cost 3.
Beast friend works only on natural creatures with animal intelligence, not humanoids, and has no effect on conjured, magical, or otherwise "unnatural" animals.
MODIFIERS  MIND RIDER (+1): The caster can comm un
icate and sense through any of the beasts he's befriended.

MODIFIERS  DAMAGE (+1): The barrier causes 2d4 damage
to anyone who contacts it.
 HARDENED (+1): The wall is Hardness 12 (or 14 with a raise).
 SHAPED (+2): The barrier forms a circle, square or other basic shape.
 SIZE (+1): The length and height of the barrier doubles.

Beast Friend
Rank: Novice Power Points: Special Range: Smarts Duration: 10 minutes Trappings: The caster concentrates and
gestures with his hands.

Powers

155

SAVAGE WORLDS

Blast
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 3 Range: Smarts ×2 Duration: Instant Trappings: Balls of fire, ice, light, darkness,
colored bolts, swarm of insects.
Blast launches a ball of explosive energy or matter. The area of effect is a Medium Blast Template. Every target within suffers 2d6 damage, or 3d6 with a raise (see Area Effect Attacks, page 97).
MODIFIERS  AREA EFFECT (+0/+1): The caster can focus
the blast to a Small Blast Template for no extra cost, or a Large Blast Template for +1.
 DAMAGE (+2): The blast causes 3d6 damage (4d6 with a raise).

Bolt
Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Smarts ×2 Duration: Instant Trappings: Fire, ice, light, darkness, colored
bolts, a stream of insects.
Bolt sends damaging bursts of energy, streaks of holy light, or shards of matter toward one's foes.
There are no Range penalties, but the arcane skill roll is affected by Cover, Illumination, and all other usual penalties.
The damage of the bolt is 2d6, or 3d6 with a raise.
MODIFIERS  DAMAGE (+2): The bolt causes 3d6 damage
(4d6 with a raise).

Blind
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: Bright flash of light, sand in eyes,
confusion.
Those affected by this malicious power suffer blurred vision or near-complete blindness with a raise.
Success means the victim suffers a -2 penalty to all actions requiring sight, or -4 with a raise.
The victim automatically tries to shake off the effect with a Vigor roll as a free action at the end of his following turns. Success removes 2 points of penalties, and a raise removes the effect entirely.
MODIFIERS  AREA EFFECT (+2/+3): For +2 points the
power affects everyone in a Medium Blast Template. For +3 points the area of effect is increased to a Large Blast Template.
 STRONG (+1): The Vigor roll to shake off the effect is made at -2.

Boost/Lower Trait
Rank: Novice Power Points: 3 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 (boost); Instant (lower) Trappings: Physical change, glowing aura,
potions.
This power allows a character to increase or decrease a target's Trait (attribute or skill).
Boosting an ally's Trait increases the selected Trait one die type, or two with a raise, for five rounds.
Lowering an enemy's Trait has a Duration of Instant and lowers the selected attribute or skill a die type with success, or two with a raise (to a minimum of d4). A victim automatically tries to shake off the effect with a Spirit roll as a free action at the end of his following turns. Success improves the effect one die type, and a raise removes the effect entirely.
Additional castings don't stack on a single Trait (take the highest), but may affect different Traits.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+2): The power
may affect more than one target for 2 additional Power Points each.
 STRONG (+1): Lower Trait only. The Spirit roll to shake off the effect is made at -2.

156

Burrow
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Dissolving into the earth and
appearing elsewhere.
Burrow allows the recipient to meld into raw earth. He can remain underground if he wants in a sort of "limbo" or burrow through the ground at half his normal Pace (or full Pace with a raise). He may not run.
A burrowing character may attempt to surprise a foe by making an opposed Stealth versus Notice roll. If the burrower wins, the target is Vulnerable to him only. With a raise, the burrower gets the Drop. Targets on Hold may attempt to interrupt the attack before it occurs.
Burrowers can't usually surprise a foe once their presence is known, but can still burrow for protection and mobility.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.
 POWER (+1): The recipient can burrow through stone, concrete, or similar substances. (Some substances, like plastic, glass, solid lead, etc., might be resistant at the GM's discretion.)
Burst
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Cone Template Duration: Instant Trappings: A shower of flames, light, or
other matter or energy.
Burst produces a large fan of energy that bathes its targets in red-hot fire, a cone of cold, or other damaging matter or energy.
Success creates a Cone Template starting at the caster and extending outward (see Area Effect Attacks, page 97). Everything within suffers 2d6 damage (or 3d6 with a raise).
MODIFIERS  DAMAGE (+2): The burst causes 3d6 damage,
or 4d6 with a raise.

Confusion
Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Smarts Duration: Until the end of the victim's next
turn Trappings: Hypnotic lights, brief illusions,
loud noises.
Confusion confounds all targets in a Medium Blast Template, making them either Distracted or Vulnerable, or both with a raise. The same effect applies to all those affected. These states are removed at the end of the victims' next turn as usual.
MODIFIERS  AREA EFFECT (+0/+1): The caster can focus
the confusion to a Small Blast Template for no extra cost, or a Large Blast Template for +1.
Damage Field
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 4 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Fiery aura, spikes, electrical field.
Damage field creates a dangerous aura around the recipient that harms foes foolish enough to get too close.
At the end of the affected character's turn, all adjacent beings (including allies!) automatically take 2d4 damage.
MODIFIERS  DAMAGE (+2): The damage field causes 2d6
damage.
Darksight
Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Smarts Duration: One hour Trappings: Glowing eyes, dilated pupils,
sonic sight.
Darksight allows a hero to see in the dark. With success, he ignores up to 4 points of illumination penalties. With a raise, he ignores up to six points and can see in pitch darkness.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.

Powers

157

SAVAGE WORLDS

Deflection
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Mystical shield, gust of wind,
phantom servant that intercepts missiles.
Deflection powers work in a variety of ways. Some actually deflect incoming attacks, others blur the target's form or produce illusionary effects. The end result is the same, however -- to misdirect incoming attacks.
With success, foes must subtract 2 from either melee or ranged attacks (caster's choice). With a raise, the penalty applies to both. An attacker using a ranged weapon in melee against the recipient suffers the penalty either way.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.
Detect/Conceal Arcana
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 (detect); one hour (conceal) Trappings: Waving hands, whispered words.

For larger creatures, increase the cost by the Scale modifier (+2 PPs for Large, +4 PPs for Huge, or +6 PPs for Gargantuan).
With success, attempts to detect arcana on the being or item suffer a -2 penalty or -4 with a raise. If detect arcana fails, the character cannot see through the ruse with this casting and is not aware it is concealed unless presented with obvious evidence of such (for example, the attack of an invisible foe).
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one viewer for detect, or item for conceal, for 1 additional Power Point each.
 AREA EFFECT (+1/+2): Conceal only. The power affects everything in a sphere the size of a Medium Blast Template for +1 points, or a Large Blast Template for +2.
 STRONG (+1): Conceal only. Detection rolls to see through the concealment are made at -2.
Disguise
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: 10 minutes Trappings: Malleable features, illusionary
appearance, hair of new form.

Detect arcana allows the recipient of the power to see and detect all supernatural persons, objects, or effects in sight for five rounds. This includes invisible foes, enchantments on people or items, weird science devices, and so on. With a raise, the caster knows the general type of enchantment as well -- harmful, obscurement, magic, miracles, etc.
When used on a supernatural creature, the caster learns its active powers and arcane abilities. With a raise, he knows Weaknesses common to that creature type. This doesn't reveal Weaknesses of unique individuals, if any. Those must usually be discovered through research or trial and error.
Invisible Creatures: Detect arcana also allows a character to ignore up to 4 points of penalties when attacking foes hidden by magical darkness, invisibility, or similar abilities (or all penalties with a raise).
Conceal arcana prevents detection of arcane energies on one being or item of Normal Scale for one hour (see the Size Table page 179).

Disguise allows the target to assume the appearance of another person of the same Size and shape, including clothing. It does not confer any abilities, however.
Those who have reason to question the imposter's identity make a Notice roll at -2 to see through the disguise (-4 with a raise on the casting roll). This is a free action.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.
 SIZE (+1): The recipient may assume the shape of someone up to two Sizes larger or smaller than themselves.
Dispel
Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: Waving hands, whispered words.

158

Powers

Dispel allows a hero to negate enemy powers. It has no effect on permanent enchantments or innate abilities such as a dragon's breath or a banshee's scream. Dispel affects arcane devices normally (see Arcane Devices, page 153).
Dispel can be used on a power already in effect or to counter an enemy power as it's being used. The latter requires the countering mage to be on Hold and interrupt his foe's action.
In either case, dispelling an opponent's power is an opposed roll of arcane skills (with a -2 modifier if the rival's power is of another type such as magic vs. miracles, psionics vs. weird science, etc.).
If the dispelling character wins, the targeted power ends immediately (or fails if it was countered with the usual results of failure). With a raise, the recipient of the dispelled power is also Distracted.
MODIFIERS  DISENCHANT (+1): The caster can target a
magical item rather than an individual or a power. This is a standard arcane skill roll, not an opposed roll (the GM may apply a penalty to disenchant powerful items or artifacts). If successful, all the item's magical abilities are negated for one round, or two with a raise.
 MULTIPLE POWERS (+3): If successful, the caster dispels all the target's currently activated powers.

Divination
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 5 Range: Self Duration: A brief conversation of about five
minutes. Trappings: Seances, demonic interrogation.
Divination allows the caster to contact other worldly beings or forces to gain information.
Preparing the spell takes one uninterrupted minute, and must be done at a site relevant to the spirit being contacted. If speaking with a ghost, for example, the conversation should occur at its grave, where it was killed, or with a personal object in hand. Oracles may only be engaged at temples, fire spirits near open flames, and so on.
After the preparation time is complete, the caster makes her arcane skill roll. Success allows her to engage with the spirit and ask it any questions she might have. The entity must answer to the best of its ability, as directly or ambiguously as the Game Master feels fits the spirit's personality and the feel of her campaign. A raise means the spirit is more helpful, knowledgeable, or direct than usual (whether it wants to be or not).
The type of entity contacted determines how it communicates. Spirits in the netherworld tend to know only those things pertinent to their life and death --and they may not even know the identity of their killer if the person was masked or unseen.

159

SAVAGE WORLDS

Likewise, nature spirits know only about ATTACK: The caster uses his activation roll as

their local environs, demons know only about an attack roll, dealing 2d4 damage to a target

the affairs they're directly involved in, and so (3d4 with a raise) within Range.

on. The Game Master must decide what the MOVE: The caster may move a cubic foot of

entity knows based on its background, origin, air, earth (half that in stone), fire, or water up

and personality.

to the caster's Smarts in any direction as a

Once a spirit has been conversed with it limited action.

may not be contacted again for 24 hours. The Game Master may extend this to a community of spirits in a single place, such as water spirits in a babbling brook or nameless spirits in a mass grave.

PUSH: The elements buffet and move the target. The caster uses his activation roll in place of his Strength for a Push (see page 104).
SPECIAL EFFECTS: The caster may use the elements to create an additional effect with

Drain Power Points

the GM's approval. Some examples are

Rank: Veteran Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: Prayer, whispered words, gestures.

using air to blow out a torch, fan a flame, or cool someone down (reroll a Fatigue roll in oppressive heat). The caster may use earth to cover tracks, fix breaks in stone or earthen walls, or use fire to conjure flame about the size of a torch or spread existing flame. He

Powerful mages, priests, psykers, and the may use water to conjure a quart of water (not

like can use this ability to drain arcane energy "inside" objects or people) or purify a gallon

from their foes. They can sometimes even of water per casting.

leech the stolen energy for themselves.

After activation, each additional use of the

The power is opposed by the target's Spirit, effects above is an action. Roll a new arcane

and the caster suffers a -2 penalty to her roll if skill roll for Attack or Push (these rolls do not

the target has a different Arcane Background suffer Backlash for Critical Failures as they

than her own.

are not activation rolls).

Success drains 1d6 of the rival's Power
Points (if any, and the die doesn't Ace). With Empathy

a raise, the caster adds the points to her own. Rank: Novice

This may take her above her usual maximum! Power Points: 1

They last until used, and must be the first Range: Smarts

spent when casting.

Duration: 5

Drain Power Points can also be used on an Trappings: Concentration, a warm or arcane device (the creator still resists with her sympathetic smile, exchanging a pleasantry.

arcane skill whether she wields it or not). The A successful arcane skill vs Spirit roll gives the

device can't lose more Power Points than it has. caster insight into a target's basic emotions.

Elemental Manipulation

This grants him a +1 bonus (+2 with a raise) to all Intimidation, Persuasion, Performance, or

Rank: Novice

Taunt rolls against the target for the Duration

Power Points: 1

of the power. The bonus does not apply to

Range: Smarts

skill rolls made to activate powers.

Duration: 5 Trappings: A few simple gestures.

Empathy works on animals, adding + 1 (+2 with a raise) to Riding or other rolls to interact

This power grants basic control over the with the creature.

four traditional elements: air, earth, fire, and water (the elements may vary depending on the setting). The power acts as if it has a d6 Strength, or d8 with a raise.
Upon activation, the caster may choose one

MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.

of the following effects:

160

Entangle
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: Glue bomb, vines, webs.
Entangle allows the caster to restrain a target with ice, bands of energy, or other vine-like Trappings (Hardness 8). If successful, the target is Entangled. With a raise, he's Bound.
Victims may break free on their turn as detailed under Bound & Entangled on page 98.
MODIFIERS  AREA EFFECT (+2/+3): For +2 points the
power affects everyone in a Medium Blast Template. For +3 points the area of effect is increased to a Large Blast Template.
 TOUGH (+1): The entangling material is particularly resilient. Increase its Hardness to 10.
Environmental Protection
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: One hour Trappings: A mark on the forehead, potions,
gills.
Adventurers sometimes travel beneath the waves, in space, or other hazardous environments. This power protects them from crushing depths, scathing heat, intense cold, and even radiation.

Environmental protection allows the target to breathe, speak, and move at his normal Pace in an otherwise fatal environment. It protects him against intense heat, cold, radiation, atmospheric or fluid pressure, and lack of oxygen. Generally, the adventurer can function normally underwater, in space, within the cone of a volcano, etc. It fails quickly (1d4 rounds) in the presence of superintense conditions such as actual lava or the massive radiation of a melting nuclear core, for example.
Environmental protection reduces damage from like sources by 4 (6 with a raise). If protecting against intense heat, for example, it protects against a flamethrower or bolt with a fire Trapping.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.
Farsight
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Invisibly marked targets,
guiding winds, eagle eyes.
Farsight allows the recipient to see in detail over great distances. She can read lips or read fine print up to a mile distant.
With a raise, she also halves Range penalties for Shooting, Athletics (throwing), or other abilities affected by Range.
161

Powers

MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.

Strength one die type (minimum of d4) and Toughness by 1 (minimum of 2).
For unwilling targets, the caster's arcane skill roll is opposed by Spirit.

SAVAGE WORLDS

Fear
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: Gestures, eldritch energy, chills.
This power causes overwhelming dread and horror. The affected make a Fear roll. Extras who fail are Panicked and Wild Cards roll on the Fear Table. If the power is cast with a raise, the Fear roll is at -2 and Wild Cards add +2 to Fear Table results.
MODIFIERS  AREA EFFECT (+2/+3): For +2 points the
power affects everyone in a Medium Blast Template. For +3 points the area of effect is increased to a Large Blast Template.
Fly
Rank: Veteran Power Points: 3 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Gusty winds, wings, broomsticks.
Fly allows a character to soar at Pace 12, or twice that with a raise (he may not Run).
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+2): The power
may affect more than one target for 2 additional Power Points each.
Growth/Shrink
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 2 per point of Size change Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Gestures, power words, potions.
Growth increases the recipient's Size by 1 for every 2 Power Points spent. Each increase in Size grants the target a one-step increase to Strength and 1 point of Toughness (see page 178 for more on Size.) This does not increase Wounds regardless of change to Scale.
Shrink reduces the Size of the subject one step for every 2 Power Points spent to a maximum of Size -2 (approximately the size of a cat). Each step reduced decreases

Havoc
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: Whirlwind, chaotic poltergeists,
repulsion field.
This ability creates chaos and mischief for all those within its area of effect, hurling debris and rivals in all directions.
With success, the caster places a Medium Blast Template anywhere within Range, or a Cone Template emanating from the caster (see Area Effect Attacks, page 97).
Anyone touched by the template is Distracted and must then make a Strength roll (at -2 if the caster got a raise). Those who fail are hurled 2d6 -- directly away from the caster if using the Cone Template or directly away from the center if using a Blast Template (the caster chooses for those in the dead center).
Victims who strike a hard object (such as a wall) take 2d4 damage (nonlethal unless it's a spiked wall or other more dangerous hazard).
Airborne Targets: Flying or airborne targets suffer an additional -2 to their Strength rolls as they have no ground to brace themselves on.
MODIFIERS  AREA EFFECT (+1): Havoc affects a Large
Blast Template.
 STRONG (+1): Strength rolls are made at -2.
Healing
Rank: Novice Power Points: 3 Range: Touch Duration: Instant Trappings: Laying on hands, touching the
victim with a holy symbol, prayer.
Healing removes Wounds less than an hour old. A success removes one Wound, and a raise removes two. The power may be cast additional times to remove additional Wounds within that hour and as long as the healer has enough Power Points.

162

For Extras, the GM must first determine if the ally is still alive (see Aftermath, page 96). If so, a successful arcane skill roll returns the ally to action (Shaken if it matters.)
MODIFIERS  GREATER HEALING (+10): Greater healing
can restore any Wound, including those more than an hour old.
 CRIPPLING INJURIES (+20): The power can heal a permanent Crippling Injury (see Incapacitation, page 95). This requires an hour of preparation and only one casting is permitted per injury. If it fails, this caster cannot heal that particular injury (but someone else may try). If successful, the subject is Exhausted for 24 hours.
 NEUTRALIZE POISON OR DISEASE (+1): A successful healing roll negates any poison or disease. If the poison or disease has a bonus or penalty associated with it, the modifier applies to the arcane skill roll as well.
Illusion
Rank: Novice Power Points: 3 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Magical spells, holograms,
"ethereal materializers."
One of the greatest powers is the ability to create something from nothing--even if it's not real!
Illusion can be used to create a visual scene or replica of most anything the caster can imagine, but it is silent, intangible, and incapable of affecting the real world. For example, illusionary weapons pass through foes, one cannot sit in an illusionary chair, and an illusionary dog has no audible bark.
Those who contact an illusion or doubt it's real make a Smarts roll as a free action (at -2 if the power was activated with a raise). If successful, that individual is no longer subject to this casting.
The GM should make group rolls for Extras as they point out the illusion's inconsistencies to each other.
The volume of the illusion must fit within a sphere the size of a Medium Blast Template (4 or eight yards in diameter).

MODIFIERS  SOUND (+1): The power generates sound
appropriate to the illusion. Illusionary allies may talk, illusionary crows caw, and so on. It may not mask or mute existing sound, however.
 STRONG (+2): Smarts rolls to disbelieve the illusion are made at -2.
Intangibility
Rank: Veteran Power Points: 5 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Ghost form, body of shadow,
gaseous transformation.
With a successful arcane skill roll, whoever receives this power becomes incorporeal. He is unable to affect the physical world, and it cannot affect him. He can travel through walls, and non-magical weapons pass straight through him. Any items carried at the time of casting are also incorporeal.
While incorporeal, the character may affect other incorporeal beings (including himself), and is still susceptible to supernatural attacks, including powers and enchanted items. With a raise on the activation roll, reduce the damage from supernatural attacks by 4.

Powers

163

SAVAGE WORLDS

The intangible character becomes corporeal when the power ends, but if within someone or something at that time he's shunted to the nearest open space and is Stunned.
If cast on an unwilling target, the victim resists with Spirit. If affected, he shakes off the effect with a Spirit roll as a free action at the end of his following turns.
Invisibility
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 5 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Powder, potion, iridescent lights.
With a success, the character and his personal items are transparent except for a vague blur or outline. Any action taken against him that requires sight is made at -4, or -6 with a raise. The same penalty applies to Notice rolls to detect the unseen presence.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL
RECIPIENTS (+3): The power may affect more than one target for 3 additional Power Points each.
Light/Darkness
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: 10 minutes Trappings: Illusionary torch,
sunlight, darkness, fogs.
Light creates bright illumin ation in a Large Blast Template. With a raise, the light can be focused into a 5 (10 yard) beam as well.
Darkness blocks illumin ation in an area the size of a Large Blast Template, making the area Dark, or Pitch Darkness with a raise (see Illumination on page 102).
If light and darkness overlap, they create a patch of Dim light (-2).

MODIFIERS  MOBILE (+1): The caster can move the area
of effect up to his arcane skill die type each round after casting, or attach it to an inanimate object when first cast.
Mind Link
Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Smarts Duration: 30 minutes Trappings: Headpieces, talismans of Tao or
other gods, crystals.
Mind link creates a telepathic connection between two individuals (which does not necessarily have to include the caster). The
link accommodates only willing subjects and communication -- thoughts that aren't consciously transmitted aren't relayed.
Once activated, the Range between all linked minds is one mile, or five with a raise.
If any of the linked characters suffers a Wound, all others must make a Smarts roll or be Shaken (this cannot cause a Wound).
The speed of communic ation is that of normal speech, but with a raise members may communicate up to 30
seconds or so of speech on a single combat turn.
MODIFIERS ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power may affect additional individuals for 1 additional Power Point each.
Mind Reading
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: Psionic invasion, soulsight.
Mind reading is an opposed roll versus the target's Smarts.

164

Success allows the character to gain one truthful answer from the subject. The target is aware of the mental intrusion unless the mind reader gets a raise. The GM may apply modifiers based on the subject's mental Hindrances or current state of mind.
Mind Wipe
Rank: Veteran Power Points: 3 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: A noxious drink, parasites,
touching the target's temples.
Mind wipe removes a target's memories, a terrible violation in most civilized societies. The power is opposed by a victim's Smarts and requires a full minute of mental struggle. The victim must be conscious during this time, so if not restrained he can simply move out of Range.
If successful, the victim forgets a single event (up to about 30 minutes of time). A raise removes a complex memory of several hours.
If the defender wins, the caster cannot affect him with mind wipe for 24 hours. (Others may reattempt the power, however.)
The memory remains missing but strong evidence that challenges its "logic" allows a Smarts roll at -2 to remember fragments determined by the GM.
MODIFIERS  EDIT (+1): Instead of wiping the memory,
the caster edits it as she sees fit.
 FAST CAST (+2): The caster can wipe a memory as an action.
Object Reading
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 2 Range: Touch Duration: Special Trappings: Touching the object, glowing
hands
Object reading is the ability to get visions of the past from an object. With a successful casting, the reader gains a vague impression of whatever information she's looking for, from the object's creation forward. A raise grants her more specific information.

If the caster uses object reading on a bloody knife to investigate a murder, for example, success might tell her the wielder was a human and that the attack happened at night. With a raise, she might get a glimpse of the killer's face or some other clue that reveals his identity.
Protection
Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: A mystical glow, hardened skin,
ethereal armor, a mass of nanites.
Protection creates a field of energy or armor around a character, giving him 2 points of Armor. With a raise, the bonus is applied to Toughness instead.
Whether the protection is visible or not depends on the Trapping.
Protection stacks with all other armor, natural or worn, and is negated by AP as usual.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect additional targets at a cost of 1 Power Point each.
Pummel
See Havoc, page 162.
Puppet
Rank: Veteran Power Points: 3 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Glowing eyes, trance-like state, a
swinging pocket watch, voodoo dolls.
Puppet is an opposed roll of the character's arcane skill versus the target's Spirit. With success, the victim obeys commands that don't directly harm himself or those he cares about. With a raise, the target will harm himself or others (including by inaction).
In either event, any time he's ordered to harm himself or those he cares about, including by inaction, he gets a Spirit roll as a free action. If successful, he doesn't carry out that particular command but remains a puppet. With a raise, he breaks the controller's hold and the power ends.

Powers

165

SAVAGE WORLDS

Commands are general, such as "attack that person" or "open that door." The controller doesn't get to dictate how many actions the victim uses in a turn, whether or not he uses his Sweep Edge, etc.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+2): The caster
may affect others at the cost of 2 Power Points each.
Quickness
See Sloth/Speed, page 167.
Relief
Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: Prayer, tonics, a cool breeze.
Relief allows the caster to recover from a negative condition or the effects of Fatigue.
Recover: The caster removes one of the following conditions: Shaken, Distracted, or Vulnerable. A raise on the arcane skill roll removes two conditions. If affecting more than one target (via the Additional Recipients modifier), the caster may choose which condition(s) to remove for each ally.
Relief can't remove conditions caused by ongoing effects (Bound or Entangled, Stunned, etc.) unless the source of the effect is removed.
Numb: Reduces the recipient's total penalties from Wounds and Fatigue by one with success, or two with a raise. An Exhausted (-2) hero with three Wounds (-3),

for example, reduces her total -5 penalty to -4 with success, and -3 with a raise.
This effect lasts one hour. It doesn't actually remove the Wounds or the Fatigue, it just allows the recipient to ignore the penalties. If the target would be Incapacitated by Wounds or Fatigue, she's still Incapacitated as usual.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.
 STUNNED (+1): If using the Recover option, the caster may also affect the Stunned condition. This completely removes the effects of being Stunned.
Resurrection
Rank: Heroic Power Points: 30 Range: Touch Duration: Instant Trappings: Elaborate ceremonies, rare
plants, magical amulets, divine intervention
Perhaps the greatest power of all is the ability to bring someone back from the dead. It can restore lost loves, bring solace to the grieving, and topple kingdoms.
Returning the dead to life requires a reason ably complete corpse no more than a year old. The caster then prays, meditates, chants, or otherwise concentrates on mending the body and pulling the spirit back to it for four hours.
Once done, the healer makes a casting roll at -8. If successful, the victim returns to life

166

with three Wounds and is Exhausted. With a raise, she returns merely Exhausted.
MODIFIERS  POWER (+5): The hero can raise a spirit
dead up to a decade for +5 Power Points.
Shape Change
Rank: Novice Power Points: Special Range: Self Duration: 5 Trappings: "Morphing," talismans,
ritualistic tattoos.
This power allows the caster to take the form of other living creatures. He can only turn into the base form of such beings, not elite or alternative versions (so an orc is allowed but an orc chieftain is not). With a raise, the caster can increase the creature's Strength and Vigor by one die type each.
The Size of the new form is limited by the caster's Rank:

additional Wounds or Wound reduction abilities like Resilient or Very Resilient, or extra Wounds from Large or Huge Scale creatures.
Sloth/Speed
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant (sloth); 5 (speed) Trappings: Slowing time, blurred motion, a
slippery patch of oil or ice.
Sloth lessens celerity and coordination while speed increases it. It halves the target's total movement each round (round up). With a raise, movement is also an action. The target automatically attempts to shake off the effects of sloth at the end of each of his next turns by making a Spirit roll.
Success with speed doubles the target's movement (basic Pace and running). With a raise the character also ignores the -2 running penalty.

Powers

COST 3 5 8 11 15

SHAPE CHANGE

RANK

SIZE

Novice

Size ­4 to Size ­1

Seasoned

Size 0

Veteran

Size 1 to 2

Heroic

Size 3 to 4

Legendary

Size 5 to 10

A character's held and worn items are assumed into the new form and reappear when the power ends.
While transformed, the character retains his Edges and Hindrances, and his Smarts, Spirit, and their linked skills. He gains the creature's Agility, Strength, Vigor, and linked skills, as well as any powers common to that creature (fire breathing for dragons, flight for pegasi, and so on). The shape changed character does not gain a target's Power Points if it has them--he retains his own.
His ability to use devices and communicate is limited to those of his form -- goblins can speak and therefore cast spells but bears and tigers cannot. The caster may maintain any powers cast before the shape change regardless of form.
Wound Effects: The shape changed individual cannot benefit from a creature's

MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): Speed only.
The power may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.
 AREA EFFECT (+2/+3): Sloth only. For +2 points the power affects everyone in a Medium Blast Template. For +3 points the area of effect is increased to a Large Blast Template.
 QUICKNESS (+2): Speed only. The character's total Multi-Action penalty each turn is reduced by 2 (she can do two actions at no penalty or three at -2 each).
 STRONG (+1): Sloth only. The Spirit roll to shake off sloth's effects is made at -2.
Slow/Speed
See Sloth/Speed, above.
Slumber
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: One hour Trappings: A lullaby, blowing powder or
sand at targets.
Those who favor stealth or want to avoid harming their foes are drawn to this spell,

167

SAVAGE WORLDS

which puts its victims into a deep and restful sleep.
Anyone affected by slumber must make a Spirit roll (at -2 if the caster got a raise on her arcane skill roll). Those who fail fall asleep for the Duration of the spell. Very loud noises or attempts to physically wake a sleeper (by shaking him, for example), grant another Spirit roll.
MODIFIERS  AREA EFFECT (+2/+3): For +2 points the
power affects everyone in a Medium Blast Template. For +3 points the area of effect is increased to a Large Blast Template.
Smite
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: A glow, runes, sigils, crackling
energy, barbs grow from the blade.
This power is cast on a weapon of some sort. If it's a ranged weapon, it affects one entire magazine, 20 bolts, shells, or arrows, or one full "load" of ammunition (the GM determines the exact quantity for unusual weapons). While the power is in effect, the weapon's damage is increased by +2, or +4 with a raise.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.
Sound/Silence
Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Smarts ×5 (sound); Smarts (silence) Duration: Instant (sound); 5 (silence) Trappings: Magical effects, a brief ripple in
the air, a bell or chime that starts or stops ringing.
Sound mimics any known sound or voice, emanating from a point of origin within Range at a volume up to the sound of a loud shout. If used as a Test, the defender opposes the casting roll with Smarts.

well as anyone trying to hear sounds made from within. A raise completely mutes all sound inside the template -- such Notice rolls automatically fail.
MODIFIERS  MOBILE (+1): The caster can move the area
of effect up to his arcane skill die type each round.
 TARGETED (+0): Instead of casting silence in an area of effect, the caster may instead target individuals in Range for 1 Power Point each. Unwilling targets resist with Spirit (at -2 if the caster gets a raise).
Speak Language
Rank: Novice Power Points: 1 Range: Smarts Duration: 10 minutes Trappings: Words, pictures, hand motions.
This power allows a character to speak, read, and write a sapient language other than his own. A raise on the arcane skill roll allows the user to appropriately use and understand slang and dialect as well.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.
Stun
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: Bolts of energy, stun bombs,
sonic booms, burst of blinding light.
Stun shocks a target with concussive force, sound, light, magical energy, or the like.
A successful casting means the victim must make a Vigor roll (at -2 with a raise on the arcane skill roll) or be Stunned (see 106).
MODIFIERS  AREA EFFECT (+2/+3): For +2 points the
power affects everyone in a Medium Blast Template. For +3 points the area of effect is increased to a Large Blast Template.

Silence does the opposite, muting all sound up to a loud shout within a Large Blast Template. This subtracts 4 from Notice rolls made by those inside the area of effect, as

Succor
See Relief, page 166.

168

Summon Ally
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2+ Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Clay figure that grows into
a servant, a tattoo that comes to life.
This power allows the character to summon a magical servant from nothing. The ally typically takes the form of a basic humanoid of the appropriate Size but can appear differently based on the caster's trappings. It materializes anywhere in Range, and with a raise on the arcane skill roll, it's Resilient as well.
The ally acts on its creator's Action Card and follows her commands to the best of its ability. It has no personality, creativity, or emotions. When the power ends or the ally is Incapacitated, it fades into nothingness, leaving no trace behind.
The type of servant that can be sum moned depends on the caster's Rank. With the GM's approval, the player may swap abilities. If a hero wants an attendant in the form of a wolf, for example, the caster might exchange the Shooting skill for Survival so that the "animal" can track its foes.

SUMMON ALLY

RANK

COST

SERVANT

Novice

1

Attendant

Seasoned

3

Bodyguard

Veteran

5

Sentinel

Heroic

7

Mirror Self*

MODIFIERS  BITE/CLAW (+1): The ally can bite or
claw at Str+d6.
 FLIGHT (+2): The ally can fly at Pace 12.
 MIND RIDER (+1): The caster can communicate and sense through the ally.
Telekinesis
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 5 Range: Smarts ×2 Duration: 5

Attendant
Attributes: Agility d4, Smarts d4, Spirit d4, Strength d4, Vigor d4
Skills: Athletics d4, Fighting d4, Notice d4, Shooting d4, Stealth d6
Pace: 4; Parry: 4; Toughness: 4 Special Abilities:  Claw: Str+d4.  Construct: +2 to recover from being Shaken;
ignore 1 point of Wound penalties; doesn't breathe, immune to poison and disease.  Fearless: Immune to fear and Intimidation.
Bodyguard
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d4, Spirit d6, Strength d6, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d6, Fighting d6, Intimidation d6, Notice d4, Shooting d4, Stealth d4
Pace: 6; Parry: 5; Toughness: 7 (2) Edges: First Strike Gear: Melee attack (Str+d6). Special Abilities:  Armor +2: Hardened skin.  Construct: See Attendant.  Fearless: Immune to fear and Intimidation.
Mirror Self
The ally is a clone of the caster except: it's an Extra; it has the same number of current Power Points as the caster after subtracting for this casting; it cannot use the summon ally power; its skills (but not attributes) are one die type less (minimum d4) than the original; it has identical mundane equipment (no magical qualities, disappears when the power expires); has the Construct and Fearless abilities.
Sentinel
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d6, Spirit d8, Strength d12+2, Vigor d10
Skills: Athletics d6, Fighting d10, Intimidation d10, Notice d8
Pace: 6; Parry: 7; Toughness: 13 (4) Edges: Arcane Resistance, Sweep (Imp). Gear: Melee attack (Str+d8). Special Abilities:  Armor +4: Stone skin.  Construct: See Attendant.  Fearless: Immune to fear and Intimidation.  Size 2: Sentinels are 8' tall and very dense.

Powers

169

SAVAGE WORLDS

Trappings: A wave of the hand, magic wand, steely gaze.
Telekinesis is the ability to move objects or creatures (including oneself) with arcane will. It has a Strength of d10, or d12 with a raise. On activation, the caster may immediately perform one of the "uses" below. Subsequent uses are actions and use the arcane skill (but are not activation rolls and therefore not subject to Backlash from Critical Failures).
Unwilling beings targeted by telekinesis resist the caster's arcane skill with an opposed Spirit roll when first targeted, and at the start of each of their turns thereafter until they're released. Successful resistance does not mean the spell fails­the caster may try again on his next turn.
USES:
BASH: The target may be bashed into the floor, ceiling, or walls for Str+d6 damage.
CHANGE TARGETS: The caster may release a victim or tool as a free action. Picking up a new weapon is a free action. Selecting a new unwilling target is an action and is resisted as above.
MANIPULATE: The caster may use tools to perform simple tasks or wield a weapon, using the caster's arcane skill. (This doesn't alter the caster's Parry if wielding a weapon if his arcane skill is different from his Fighting skill.)
MOVE: The target or tool may be moved up to the caster's Smarts as a limited free action.
Teleport
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: Instant Trappings: A cloud of smoke, "phasing" out,
change into a bolt of lightning.
Teleport allows a character to disappear and instantly reappear up to 12 (24 yards) distant, or double that with a raise. Teleporting to an unseen location incurs a -2 penalty on the arcane skill roll.
Opponents adjacent to a character who teleports away don't get a free attack (see Withdrawing from Melee, page 109).

If casting teleport on a willing subject, the caster decides where they move to, not the target.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.
 TELEPORT FOE (+2): Foes may be targeted by a Touch attack (page 108). This is an action, so the casting must be the second part of a Multi-Action if the attack is successful. The foe resists the casting with an opposed Spirit roll against the arcane skill total and is sent up to 12 away with success and 24 with a raise. Foes may not be teleported into solid objects.
Wall Walker
Rank: Novice Power Points: 2 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Spider-like visage, prickly hairs
on hands and feet.
Wall walker allows the recipient to walk on vertical or horizontal surfaces. With success, she moves at half her normal Pace. With a raise, she may move at full Pace and even run.
If forced to make an Athletics roll to climb or hang on to a surface, she adds +4 to the total.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The caster
may affect others at the cost of 1 Power Point each.
Warrior's Gift
Rank: Seasoned Power Points: 4 Range: Smarts Duration: 5 Trappings: Gestures, prayer, whispered
words, concentration.
With a successful arcane skill roll, the recip ient gains the benefits of a single Combat Edge chosen by the caster. The caster (not the recipient) must have the same Rank or higher as the Edge's Requirements. With a raise, the recipient gains the Improved version of the Edge (if there is one, and even if he doesn't meet the Rank Requirement).

170

MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL RECIPIENTS (+1): The power
may affect more than one target for 1 additional Power Point each.
Zombie
Rank: Veteran Power Points: 3 (See sidebar for large
creatures) Range: Smarts Duration: One hour Trappings: Carving symbols on corpses,
throwing bones, graveyards, "leather" books.
Zombie grants animation and basic intelli gence to the remains of a once-living being. The summoned horror is obedient but literalminded in its duties. It isn't telepathic, and must be controlled by voice.

· Hand Weapon: Str+d6. · Ranged Weapon: Range 12/24/48,
Damage 2d6.  MIND RIDER (+1): The caster can commun
icate and sense through one of the undead he's conjured. If it's destroyed, he may jump to any of the others currently under his control.
 PERMANENT (0): The zombie is given unlife until Incapacitated by Wounds. The Power Points used to raise it are "invested" and unavailable until it's destroyed. The necromancer may terminate his creations' unlife at any time, regardless of sight, distance, or other factors. His Power Points then begin recharging normally.
Permanent zombies remain animated even if their creator is slain!

Powers

The being has the physical skills it had in

life, but its Smarts, Spirit, and related skills

are reset to d4. A raise on the casting roll increases any one of their Traits by one die

Zombie Creatures

type (caster's choice).

Animals and other creatures can also be

See page 191 for the standard profile of a human zombie. Corpses aren't summoned by this ability, so there must actually be a supply of bodies in Range (GM's call).

raised with this foul ability! The cost is 2 for a creature of Size -1 or -2, 3 for Size 0, and 1 for a Small Swarm, 2 for a Medium Swarm, or 3 for a Large Swarm.

An undead Incapacitated by damage can't be raised with this power again.
MODIFIERS  ADDITIONAL ZOMBIES (+1): A larger horde
can be raised in a single casting by paying an additional 1 Power Point for each extra zombie raised.
 ARMED & ARMORED (+1 per Zombie): The restless dead rise with +2 Armor and weapons common to their background or environment. Choose one:

Larger creatures cost 3 + Size in Power Points. For example, an undead grizzly (Size 2) costs 5 Power Points to raise.
Magical or supernatural Special Abilities aren't conferred to the undead form, but those inherent to the creature are, such as Improved Frenzy, Reach, a swarm's attack, etc.
Additional zombie creatures cost half their base cost if raised at once, instead of the +1 listed for Additional Zombies (round up, minimum of 1).

171

Power Summaries

SAVAGE WORLDS

POWERS

POWER Arcane Protection Banish Barrier

RANK N V S

POWER POINTS
1
3 2

RANGE Sm Sm Sm

DUR SUMMARY

Enemy casters subtract 2 (4 with a raise) 5 when targeting this character; reduces
damage a like amount.

I Opposed roll vs Spirit to banish entities.

5

Creates 5 (10 yards) long, 1 (2 yards) tall, Hardness 10 (12 with a raise) barrier.

Beast Friend

N

Blast

S

Blind

N

Bolt

N

Boost/Lower Trait N

Burrow

N

S

Sm 10m Controls animals.

3

Sm×2 I 2d6 damage in Medium Blast Template.

2

Sm

I Inflicts ­2/­4 penalty to victims.

1

Sm×2 I 2d6 ranged attack.

3

Sm 5/I Increases or decreases a skill or attribute.

2

Sm

5 Target tunnels through the earth.

Burst

N

2

Cone I Cone-shaped attack for 2d6 damage.

Confusion

N

1

Sm

S Makes targets Distracted or Vulnerable.

Damage Field

S

4

Sm

5 Creates aura that causes 2d4 damage.

Darksight

N

1

Sm

1H

Ignore up to 4 points of illumination penalties, or 6 with a raise.

Deflection

N

2

Sm

5

-2 to incoming melee or ranged attacks (or both with a raise.

Detect/Conceal Arcana

N

2

Sm

S

Detects magic for Duration 5 or conceals it for one hour.

Disguise

S

2

Sm 10m Target looks like someone else.

Dispel

N

1

Sm

I Negates magical effects.

Divination

S

5

Self 5m Caster asks questions of entities.

Drain Power Points

V

2

Sm

I

Drains d6 Power Points from enemy with successful opposed roll of arcane skills.

Elemental Manipulation

N

1

Sm

5

Allows minor manipulation of basic elements.

Empathy

N

1

Sm

5

Opposed roll vs Spirit to add +1/+2 to social skills for the Duration of the power.

Entangle

N

2

Sm

I Bind or Entangle foes.

Environmental Protection

N

2

Sm

1H

Protect target from hazardous environments.

Farsight

S

2

Sm

5

See detail at great distance; halves Range penalties with a raise.

Fear

N

2

Sm

I Causes Fear check.

Fly

V

3

Sm

5 Target flies at Pace 12.

Growth/Shrink

S

S

Sm

5 Increases or decreases Size.

Havoc

N

2

Sm

I

Targets in MBT or Cone are Distracted and may be hurled.

Healing

N

3

T

I Restores Wounds less than an hour old.

Illusion

N

3

Sm

5 Creates imaginary images.

172

POWER Intangibility Invisibility Light/Darkness Mind Link Mind Reading Mind Wipe
Object Reading
Protection Puppet Relief Resurrection Shape Change Sloth/Speed Slumber Smite
Sound/Silence
Speak Language Stun Summon Ally
Telekinesis
Teleport
Wall Walker
Warrior's Gift Zombie

RANK V S N N N V
S
N V N H N S S N
N
N N N
S
S
N
S V

POWER POINTS
5 5 2 1 2 3
2
1 3 1 30 Special 2 2 2
1
1 2 Special
5
2
2
4 3

RANGE Sm Sm Sm Sm Sm Sm
T
Sm Sm Sm T Self Sm Sm Sm Sm×5/ Sm Sm Sm Sm
Sm×2
Sm
Sm
Sm Sm

DUR SUMMARY

5 Target becomes incorporeal.

5 Target is invisible (­4/­6 to affect).

10m Creates or dispels illumination.

30m Mental link within one mile (5 with raise).

I Opposed roll vs Smarts to read mind.

I Removes and alters memories.

S

Reveals vague information about an object's history (more detail revealed with a raise).

5 Grants Armor +2 (Toughness, with a raise).

5 Opposed roll vs Spirit to control target.

I Removes negative conditions or penalti.

I Brings the dead back to life.

5 Caster takes on the form of various beings.

I/5 Increases or decreases movement.

1H Puts victims to sleep.

5 Increase a weapon's damage by +2/+4.

I/5 Create or mute sound.

10m Caster can speak and understand languages.

I Target is Stunned.

5 Conjures an ally of various sorts.

5

Moves items with Strength of d10 (d12 with a raise).

I Character teleports up to 12 distant.

5

Character can walk on walls at half Pace (full Pace with raise).

5 Grant target a Combat Edge.

1H Raises and controls the undead.

Powers

173

Chapter Six
Bestiary

Great heroes are often defined by the foes, monsters, and other horrors they face. In this chapter are a number of the most common threats across the many Savage Worlds.
Designing Threats
Nonplayer characters and monsters should have any Edges or Hindrances the GM feels are appropriate. They are not created like player characters (though they should generally have the prerequisites of any Edges for completeness). Otherwise, give them the abilities you want them to have and spend your time and energy on the plot of the game or how best to entertain your group.
Special Abilities
Aquatic
The creature is native to the water. It is a natural swimmer and cannot drown. Its Pace in water is specified after the Aquatic ability.
Armor
A creature's Armor is written in parentheses next to its total Toughness, and already added in. Thick, leathery hide generally offers 2 points of Armor. Creatures like a stegosaurus generally have 4 or more points of protection. Supernatural creatures may have much higher Armor values. A living statue, for example, might have 8 points of Armor or more.

Bite
See Natural Weapons, page 104.
Breath Weapons
Dragons and other "fire breathers" use a Cone Template for their attacks (see Area Effect attacks on page 97). Breath attacks may be Evaded (page 100).
Unless the creature's description says otherwise, breath attacks take the creature's entire turn -- they can't perform MultiActions in the same round they make a breath attack.
Burrow
From massive worms to sand-dwelling humanoids, many creatures are able to burrow beneath the earth and move within it.
Burrowers can tunnel underground and reappear elsewhere for devastating surprise attacks against their foes. The distance a creature can burrow on its turn is written immediately after its Burrow ability.
A burrowing creature may tunnel on its action, and may erupt from the ground at any point within its burrowing Pace in the same turn. It cannot be attacked while beneath the earth unless the attacker has some special means of detecting it and penetrating the intervening dirt.
Burrowing creatures erupt from beneath their opponents and may take them by surprise. If the target was unaware of the

175

SAVAGE WORLDS

burrower's presence, the creature makes an opposed Stealth roll versus the victim's Notice. If the burrower wins, the target is Vulnerable to it only. With a raise, the burrower gets the Drop. Targets on Hold may attempt to interrupt the attack before it occurs.
Burrowers can't usually surprise a foe once their presence is known, but can still burrow for protection and mobility.
Claws
See Natural Weapons, page 104.
Construct
Robots, golems, and other animated objects are collectively called "constructs." Some are sentient beings while others are mere automatons following the will of their masters.
Whatever their origin or material, constructs have several inherent advantages over creatures of flesh and blood.
Constructs add +2 when attempting to recover from being Shaken, ignore 1 point of Wound penalties, don't breathe or eat and are immune to disease and poison, don't Bleed Out, and Wounds are removed with Repair instead of Healing with no "Golden Hour."
Elemental
Air, earth, fire, and water form the basis of the elemental realms, wherein dwell strange, unfathomable creatures.
Elementals have bodies of pure earth, water, air, or fire and thus ignore additional damage from Called Shots, ignore 1 point of Wound penalties, don't breathe or eat and are immune to disease and poison, can only be healed via magic or natural healing.
Environmental Resistance
The creature is resistant (but not immune) to a particular type of energy or substance, such as cold, heat, iron, etc.
Damage from the source is reduced by 4, and the being adds +4 to resist matching Hazards or powers with a similar Trapping.
Environmental Weakness
The creature is susceptible to a particular type of energy or substance, such as cold, heat, iron, etc.

Damage from the source is increased by 4, and the being subtracts 4 when resisting matching Hazards or powers with a similar Trapping.
Ethereal
Ghosts, shadows, will-o'-the-wisps, and similar intangible creatures have no form in the physical world (or can turn it on and off at will). They can pass through physical objects, cannot be harmed by non-magical attacks, and cannot even be seen unless they desire to be. Ethereal creatures are affected by magical items, weapons, and supernatural powers.
Unless its description says otherwise, ethereal creatures can throw objects, wield weapons, or even push terrified heroes down long, dark stairs.
Fear
Particularly frightening monsters cause Fear checks to all who see them. Some truly terrifying monsters may inflict penalties on Fear checks as well. A creature with Fear -2, for instance, causes those who see it to make their Fear checks at -2. See the Fear rules on page 124 for effects.
Fearless
Mindless creatures, some undead, robots, and the like don't suffer from the weaknesses of the mortal mind. Fearless creatures are immune to Fear effects and Intimidation. They may still be Taunted, however (usually because it draws their attention rather than causing emotional distress).
Flight
The creature can fly at the listed Pace. It uses its Athletics to maneuver in chases or other situations.
Gargantuan
Gargantuan creatures are those that are at least Size 12 or higher. Classic movie monsters like Godzilla fall into this category.
Gargantuans have Heavy Armor, can take three additional Wounds, and their attacks count as Heavy Weapons.
Stomp: A Gargantuan creature may stomp by using an area effect template (the size of the template is determined by the GM based on the monster's "footprint"). The

176

attack ignores Scale modifiers and is an opposed Athletics vs Agility roll (defenders roll individually). Those who can't get out of the way are stomped for damage equal to the thing's Strength damage.
Hardy
Very tough or determined creatures do not fall from lesser injuries, no matter how many they suffer. A decisive blow is needed to put one of these tenacious creatures down.
If the beast is Shaken, another Shaken result doesn't cause a Wound.
Horns
See Natural Weapons, page 104.
Immunity
Creatures born in fire aren't affected by heat, and a horror made of pure lightning won't suffer from a bolt attack with an electrical trapping. Immunities are to specific types of attacks, such as fire, cold, electricity, and so on. Such creatures don't have Invulnerability (see below), they just ignore damage and Stun results from the specific attack types named.
Infection
A vampire's bite, a horrid spider-like creature that injects eggs into its victim's skin, or even the disease-born scratching of rats are all examples of Infection.
A character Shaken or Wounded by a creature with Infection must make a Vigor roll. Modifiers to the roll are listed in the creature's description, as are the effects of failure.
Infravision
Nocturnal beasts often see in the infrared spectrum-- meaning they can "see" by detecting heat. Creatures with Infravision halve penalties for bad lighting when attacking targets that radiate warmth (including invisible foes).
Clever characters may figure out ways to mask their heat from such creatures. Smearing cold mud over one's body or wearing special heat-filtering suits generally obscures the target from those with Infravision.
Humanoids with Infravision usually have normal sight as well.

Invulnerability
Some Savage Tales feature invulnerable horrors that can only be defeated by discovering their weakness.
Invulnerable creatures ignore damage as listed in their description. Unless otherwise specified, they can be Shaken or Stunned but not Wounded by other forms of damage. An ancient dark god given life by misguided cultists, for example, might only be vulnerable to shards of stained glass gathered from a church.
Low Light Vision
Low Light Vision ignores penalties for Dim and Dark Illumination (but not Pitch Darkness).
Paralysis
Paralyzing poisons are covered under Poison, below. Other creatures might paralyze their victims with magic, electricity, or other sources. Victims who suffer damage or a Shaken result from such a creature must make a Vigor roll or be Stunned. They're also paralyzed and incapable of any action-- even speech -- for 2d6 rounds (or longer if otherwise specified).
Poison
Snakes, spiders, and other creatures inject poisonous venom via bite or scratch. To do so, the thing must cause at least a Shaken result to the victim, who then makes a Vigor roll modified by the strength of the poison (listed in parentheses after the creature's Poison ability). Effects of failure are described in more detail in the Hazards section (page 129).
Regeneration
Legend has it that trolls, vampires, and certain other types of legendary creatures can Regenerate damage caused to them.
Regeneration comes in two types: Fast and Slow.
 FAST: Wounded creatures make a Vigor roll every round--even after they've been Incapacitated. A success heals one Wound (or removes Incapacitated status), and a raise heals an additional Wound. Wounds caused by some types of damage, listed in the creature's description, do not regenerate but may still heal naturally. Trolls cannot

Bestiary

177

SAVAGE WORLDS

regenerate Wounds caused by flame, for example.
 SLOW: The creature makes a natural healing roll once per day.
Resilient/Very Resilient
Elite Extras are tougher than usual. This might include specially bred orcs in a fantasy setting, particularly tough thugs or agents in the modern world, or even mutant animals created in the lab of some mad scientist.
Resilient Extras can take one Wound before they're Incapacitated, Very Resilient Extras can take two. Wild Cards can't be Resilient or Very Resilient. The abilities exist to bring select Extras a little closer to the heroes and villains who lead them.
Size
Size grants a bonus to Toughness (or penalty for small creatures) and is a guide to the typical Strength of creatures in that general range.
Size is generally based on mass, but exceptions exist for extremely large but weak creatures, small but strong beings, etc.
Scale Modifiers are explained under Size & Scale on page 106.
Additional Wounds: Large creatures can take an additional Wound, Huge can take two, and Gargantuan three. The maximum Wound penalty is always three. This stacks with Resilient/Very Resilient (see above).
Unless otherwise stated, such creatures have Reach equal to the additional Wounds granted by Size.
Stun
A creature with this ability often has an electrical attack, mild toxin, mind lash, or similar defensive mechanism that temporarily disables their prey. Anyone Shaken or Wounded by the accompanying attack must make a Vigor roll minus any listed penalties or be Stunned (page 106). The Vigor roll is made at ­2 if the creature hits with a raise.
Swat
The creature has learned how to deal with pesky creatures smaller than itself. It ignores up 4 points of Scale penalties when attacking with certain abilities listed in its description (and only those specific abilities).

Tentacles
The creature has a number of "tentacle actions" specified in its description (usually 2 or 4). Tentacle actions collectively count as a single limited action for the creature on its turn. The actions must stem from the tentacle in some way -- usually a Fighting, Shooting, or grappling attack, but this is the GM's call.
If the creature is a Wild Card, it rolls its Wild Die with each tentacle action as usual.
If the being performs other actions on its turn, such as Taunting or casting a spell, these and the tentacle actions are affected by the Multi-Action penalty as usual.
Grappling rolls made with tentacles get a +2 bonus, and "crushing" causes the creature's Strength in damage unless otherwise listed.
Severing a tentacle is a Called Shot. If damage exceeds the creature's Toughness, the limb is severed and the monster is Shaken. If it was already Shaken, it takes a Wound.
Undead
Zombies, skeletons, and similar physical horrors are particularly difficult to destroy. Below are the benefits of being such an abomination.
· Add +2 to Toughness and Spirit rolls to recover from being Shaken, ignore addi tional damage from Called Shots, ignore 1 point of Wound penalties, don't breathe or eat and are immune to disease and poison, don't Bleed Out, and can only be healed with magical healing.
Wall Walker
Some creatures have the ability to walk on walls. They automatically walk on vertical or inverted surfaces just as a human walks on the earth.
A Wall Walker's movement rate when walking on walls is its standard Pace. It may run as usual when walking on walls unless the specific creature's text says otherwise.
Weakness
Some creatures suffer additional damage or can only be hurt by their Weakness. A creature made of ice, for example, might take double damage from fire. See the creature's description for particular effects.

178

SIZE TABLE

Use the examples below to estimate the Size of creatures not included in the Bestiary. Mass is usually enough to determine its Size and Toughness bonus, but account for overall dimensions as makes sense.
Tiny creatures have a Strength score of 1. They can't make a Strength roll (and therefore can't Ace or get bonus damage). They can damage creatures with a Toughness of 1, but can only harm Small or larger beings if they swarm together (see Swarms, page 189).

SIZE / TOUGHNESS
BONUS

TYPICAL STRENGTH
RANGE

SCALE MODIFIER

TYPICAL HEIGHT / LENGTH UP TO...

MASS EXAMPLE UP TO... CREATURES



TINY

-4

1

-6

6

<4 lbs Crow, mouse



 VERY SMALL 

-3

d4-3

-4

18

16 lbs House cat, small dogs



SMALL

-2

d4-1

-2

3

32 lbs Coyote, bobcat, porcupine



NORMAL

-1

d4 to d6

--

4

125 lbs Child, wolf, half-folk, goblin

0

d6 to d12

--

6

250 lbs Human, Great Dane, dire wolf

1

d8 to d12+1

--

8

500 lbs Large human, gorilla, lion, orc

2

d10 to d12+2

--

9

1000 lbs Grizzly, horse, ogre, tiger shark

3

d12 to d12+3

--

12

2000 lbs Bull, war horse



 LARGE (+1 WOUND & REACH +1) 

(15

4

d12+1 to d12+4

+2

15

2 tons Hippo, great white shark

5

d12+2 to d12+5

+2

18

4 tons White rhino, beluga whale

6

d12+3 to d12+6

+2

24

8 tons African elephant, drake, orca

7

d12+4 to d12+7

+2

30

16 tons T-Rex, triceratops



 HUGE (+2 WOUNDS & REACH +2) 

8

d12+5 to d12+8

+4

36

32 tons Dragon, sperm whale

9

d12+6 to d12+9

+4

50

64 tons Humpback whale

10

d12+7 to d12+10

+4

63

125 tons Bowhead whale

11

d12+8 to d12+11

+4

75

250 tons Blue whale



 GARGANTUAN (+3 WOUNDS & REACH +3) 

12

d12+9 to d12+12

+6

100 500 tons Kaiju or giant monsters

13

d12+10 to d12+13

+6

125

1K tons

14

d12+11 to d12+14

+6

150

2K tons

15

d12+12 to d12+15

+6

200

4K tons

16

d12+13 to d12+16

+6

250

8K tons

17

d12+14 to d12+17

+6

300 16K tons

18

d12+15 to d12+18

+6

400 32K tons

19

d12+16 to d12+19

+6

500 64K tons

20

d12+17 to d12+20

+6

600 125K tons

Bestiary

179

SAVAGE WORLDS

Bestiary
This section contains animals and monsters common to many Savage Settings. Note that for some creatures, Smarts is listed relative to the animal world, and is thus followed by an (A) to remind you that this is animal intelligence, not human intelligence, so don't expect a dog to drive a car just because it's a relatively smart animal.
Alligator/Crocodile
Alligators and crocodiles are staples of most pulp-genre adventure games. The statistics here represent an average specimen of either species. Much larger versions are often found in more remote areas.
Attributes: Agility d4, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d6, Strength d10, Vigor d10
Skills: Athletics d6, Fighting d8, Notice d8, Stealth d8
Pace: 3; Parry: 6; Toughness: 11 (2) Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Armor +2: Thick skin.  Aquatic: Pace 5.  Bite: Str+d6.  Rollover: Gators and crocs grasp prey in
their vice-like jaws and roll with them. If one of these large reptiles hits with a raise, its bonus damage is a d10 instead of a d6.  Size 2: Common gators are about 12 long, thick, heavy, and weigh around 500 lbs.

Bear
This entry covers the larger ursines, such as grizzlies, Kodiaks, and polar bears. A favored tactic of all these bears is to grapple and bite with their fierce fangs.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d6 (A), Spirit d8, Strength d12+2, Vigor d12
Skills: Athletics d8, Fighting d8, Notice d8, Stealth d8
Pace: 8; Parry: 6; Toughness: 10 Edges: Brute Special Abilities:  Bite/Claws: Str+d6.  Size 2: These creatures can stand up to 8
tall and weigh over 1,000 pounds.
Bull
Bulls are usually only aggressive toward humans when enraged. Of course, if you're looking up the statistics here, it's probably already seeing red.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d8, Strength d12+3, Vigor d12
Skills: Athletics d8, Fighting d4, Notice d6 Pace: 7; Parry: 4; Toughness: 11 Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Horns: Str+d6.  Size 3: Most bulls weigh just under a ton.

180

Cat, Small
This is an ordinary house cat, the sort that might be a familiar for a spellcaster, a Beast Master's animal friend, or an alternate form for the shape change power.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d6 (A), Spirit d10, Strength d4-3, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d8, Notice d6, Stealth d8 Pace: 6; Parry: 2; Toughness: 2 Edges: Acrobat Special Abilities:  Bite/Claws: Str.  Low Light Vision: Cats ignore penalties for
Dim and Dark Illumination.  Size -3 (Very Small): Cats are typically less
than a foot high.

Wild Card Monsters
Creatures noted with this symbol are
usually Wild Cards: X. They roll a Wild
Die with their Trait checks and can take three Wounds.
Some creatures should almost always be Wild Cards, like dragons or liches. They have unique names, backgrounds, and stories, and are often the "boss monsters" of the adventure.
The GM can always change that if the beings are common in a setting, but this should be a fairly rare occurrence. It might make sense in a world full of dragons, for example, or a coven of vampires.

Dire Wolf
Dire wolves are very large and feral canines often used by orcs as attack dogs. They may also be found roaming in packs in the deepest, darkest woods.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d6, Strength d8, Vigor d8
Skills: Athletics d8, Fighting d8, Intimidation d8, Notice d6, Stealth d8
Pace: 10; Parry: 6; Toughness: 6 Edges: Alertness Special Abilities:  Bite: Str+d6.  Speed: d10 running die.
Dog/Wolf
The stats below are for large attack dogs, such as Rottweilers and Doberman Pinschers, as well as wolves, hyenas, and the like.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d6 (A), Spirit d6, Strength d6, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d8, Fighting d6, Notice d10, Stealth d8
Pace: 8; Parry: 5; Toughness: 4 Edges: Alertness Special Abilities:  Bite: Str+d4.  Size -1: The heads of these canines come to
an average human's waist, and they weigh about 60 pounds.  Speed: d10 running die.

WDragon
Dragons are fire-breathing monsters that bring doom and despair to the villages they ravage. Such creatures should not be fought lightly as they are more than a match for even a party of experienced adventurers. These beasts are quite intelligent as well, and use all of their advantages when confronted by would-be dragon-slayers.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d8, Spirit d10, Strength d12+8, Vigor d12
Skills: Athletics d10, Common Knowledge d6, Fighting d10, Intimidation d12, Notice d12, Persuasion d10, Stealth d8
Pace: 8; Parry: 7; Toughness: 20 (4) Edges: Frenzy (Imp), Level Headed Special Abilities:  Armor +4: Scaly hide.  Bite/Claws: Str+d8.  Fear (-2): Anyone who sees a mighty dragon
must make a Fear check at -2.  Fiery Breath: Dragons breathe fire for 3d6
damage (see Breath Weapons, page 175).  Flight: Dragons have a Flying Pace of 24.  Hardy: The creature does not suffer a
Wound from being Shaken twice.  Size 8 (Huge): Dragons are massive crea
tures, over 40 long from nose to tail and weighing over 30,000 pounds.  Swat: Dragons ignore up to 4 points of Scale penalties when attacking with their claws.  Tail Lash: Str+d4. The creature may make a free attack against up to two foes to its side or rear at no penalty.

Bestiary

181

SAVAGE WORLDS

Drake
Drakes are non-flying dragons with animal intelligence (rather than the more human-like sentience of true dragons). They are much more aggressive in direct combat than their distant cousins, however.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d6 (A), Spirit d10, Strength d12+6, Vigor d12
Skills: Athletics d8, Fighting d10, Intimidation d12, Notice d8, Stealth d6
Pace: 6; Parry: 7; Toughness: 18 (4) Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Armor +4: Scaly hide.  Bite/Claws: Str+d8.  Fear: Drakes are frightening creatures to
behold.  Fiery Breath: Drakes breathe fire for 3d6
damage (see Breath Weapons, page 175).  Resilient: Drakes can take one Wound
before they're Incapacitated.  Size 6 (Large): Drakes are over 20 long
from snout to tail.  Tail Lash: Str. The creature may make
a free attack against up to two foes to its side or rear at no penalty.

Elementals
Elementals are living spirits of earth, fire, water, or air. Below are lesser versions of such creatures, but many more powerful varieties exist.
Air Elemental
Air elementals manifest as sentient whirlwinds.
Attributes: Agility d12, Smarts d6, Spirit d6, Strength d8, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d10, Fighting d8, Notice d8, Shooting d6, Stealth d10
Pace: --; Parry: 6; Toughness: 5 Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Elemental: No additional damage from
Called Shots, ignores 1 point of Wound penalties, doesn't breathe, immune to disease and poison.  Gaseous Form: Can maneuver through any non-solid surface, pass through cracks
in doors or windows, bubble through water, etc.

182

 Flight: Air elementals fly at Pace 12.  Invulnerability: Immune to non-magical
attacks.  Wind Blast: Air elementals can send
directed blasts of air to knock their foes away. They may choose one target or a Cone Template, and use their Shooting skill for the roll. Those affected make a Strength roll (at -2 if the elemental gets a raise) or are hurled 2d6. Anyone who strikes a hard object (such as a wall) takes 2d4 non-lethal damage.
Earth Elemental
Earth elementals manifest as five-foot-tall, vaguely man-shaped collections of earth and stone. Though strong, they are also quite slow and ponderous.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d4, Spirit d6, Strength d12, Vigor d10
Skills: Athletics d6, Fighting d8, Notice d4, Stealth d6
Pace: 4; Parry: 6; Toughness: 11 (4) Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Armor +4: Rocky hide.  Bash: Str+d6.  Burrow (10): Earth elementals can meld
into and out of the ground.  Elemental: No additional damage from
Called Shots, ignores 1 point of Wound penalties, doesn't breathe, immune to disease and poison.  Immunity: Immune to earth-based attacks (including thrown stones or powers with earth, mud, stone, or sand Trappings).  Resilient: Earth elementals can take one Wound before they're Incapacitated.
Fire Elemental
Fire elementals appear as man-shaped flame.
Attributes: Agility d12+1, Smarts d8, Spirit d8, Strength d4, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d8, Fighting d10, Notice d6, Shooting d8, Stealth d6
Pace: 6; Parry: 7; Toughness: 5 Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Elemental: No additional damage from
Called Shots, ignores 1 point of Wound penalties, doesn't breathe, immune to disease and poison.

 Fiery Touch: Str+d6, chance of catching Fire (see page 127).
 Flame Strike: Can project a searing blast of flame using the Cone Template and their Shooting skill. Characters within take 3d6 and may catch Fire (see page 127). May be Evaded.
 Immunity: Fire elementals are immune to fire and heat-based attacks.
Water Elemental
These spirits are frothing, man-shaped beings of water.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d6, Spirit d6, Strength d10, Vigor d10
Skills: Athletics d6, Fighting d8, Notice d6, Shooting d8, Stealth d8
Pace: 6; Parry: 6; Toughness: 7 Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Aquatic: Pace 12.  Elemental: No additional damage from
Called Shots, ignores 1 point of Wound penalties, doesn't breathe, immune to disease and poison.  Immunity: Immune to water-based attacks.  Seep: Can squeeze through any porous gap as if it were Difficult Ground.  Slam: Str+d6, nonlethal damage.  Waterspout: Can project a torrent of water using the Cone Template and their Shooting skill. Those within take 2d6 nonlethal damage. This may be Evaded.
Ghost
Specters, shades, and phantoms sometimes return from death to haunt the living or fulfill some unfinished business.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d6, Spirit d10, Strength d6, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d6, Common Knowledge d8, Fighting d6, Intimidation d12, Notice d12, Stealth d12, Taunt d10
Pace: 6; Parry: 5; Toughness: 5 Edges: -- Gear: Thrown objects (Str+d4). Special Abilities:  Ethereal: Ghosts can become invisible and
immaterial at will and can only be harmed by magical attacks.  Fear (-2): Ghosts cause Fear checks at -2 when they let themselves be seen.

Bestiary

183

SAVAGE WORLDS

WGiant Worm
Massive worms tunneling beneath the earth to gobble up unsuspecting adventurers are sometimes found in lonesome flatlands. The things sense vibrations through the earth, hearing a walking person at about 200 yards. The stats below are for a monster some 50 feet long.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d6 (A), Spirit d10, Strength d12+9, Vigor d12
Skills: Athletics d6, Fighting d6, Notice d10, Stealth d10
Pace: 6; Parry: 5; Toughness: 21 (4) Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Armor +4: Scaly hide.  Bite: Str+d8.  Burrow (20): Giant worms tunnel through
the ground, blocked only by solid bedrock.  Hardy: The creature does not suffer a
Wound from being Shaken twice.  Size 9 (Huge): Giant worms are usually
over 50 long and 10 or more in diameter.

 Slam: Giant worms crush prey beneath their massive bodies. Lay three Small Blast Templates adjacent to one another and in a straight line to represent the portion of the creature's body used to crush. Everything within must beat the worm in an opposed Athletics versus Agility roll or take its Str as damage. Ignore Scale modifiers when making a slam attack.
Goblin
Goblins of myth and legend are far more sin ister creatures than some games and fiction portray. In the original tales, they were terrifying creatures that stole into homes in the middle of the night to steal and eat unruly children. The statistics here work for both dark "fairy tale" goblins as well as those found alongside orcs in contemporary roleplaying games.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d6, Spirit d6, Strength d4, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d6, Common Knowledge d10, Fighting d6, Notice d6, Persuasion d4, Shooting d8, Stealth d10, Taunt d6
Pace: 5; Parry: 5; Toughness: 4 Hindrances: Greedy (Major) Edges: -- Gear: Short spears (Str+d4),
bows (Range 12/24/48, Damage 2d6). Special Abilities: Infravision: Halve penalties for Illumination when attacking warm
targets. Size -1: Goblins stand 3­4 tall.

Horse
Riding horses compromise speed with carrying capacity.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d6, Strength d12, Vigor d8 Skills: Athletics d8, Fighting d4,
Notice d6 Pace: 12; Parry: 4; Toughness: 8 Edges: Fleet-Footed. Special Abilities:  Kick: Str+d4, to the front or rear as desired.  Size 2: Typical quarter horse of about 1,000 lbs.

184

Horse, War
War horses are large beasts trained for aggression. They are trained to fight with both hooves, either to their front or their rear.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d6, Strength d12+2, Vigor d10
Skills: Athletics d6, Fighting d8, Notice d6 Pace: 8; Parry: 6; Toughness: 10 Edges: Fleet-Footed. Special Abilities:  Kick: Str+d4, to the front or rear as desired.  Size 3: Warhorses are large creatures bred
for their power and stature.
WLich
Perhaps the most diabolical creature in any fantasy land is the lich -- a necromancer so consumed with the black arts that he eventually becomes undead himself.

Lion
The kings of the jungle are fierce predators, particularly in open grassland where their prey cannot seek refuge.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d6 (A), Spirit d10, Strength d12, Vigor d8
Skills: Athletics d10, Fighting d8, Notice d8, Stealth d10
Pace: 8; Parry: 6; Toughness: 7 Edges: Frenzy (Imp) Special Abilities:  Bite/Claws: Str+d6.  Low Light Vision: Lions ignore penalties
for Dim and Dark Illumination.  Pounce: Lions pounce on their prey to best
bring their mass and claws to bear. If a lion makes a Wild Attack, it adds +4 to its damage instead of +2.  Size 1: Typical males are about 400 pounds.

Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d12+2, Spirit d10, Strength d10, Vigor d10
Skills: Athletics d6, Common Knowledge d8, Fighting d8, Intimidation d12, Notice d10, Occult d12+2, Persuasion d8, Spellcasting d12
Pace: 6; Parry: 6; Toughness: 15 (6) Edges: Concentration, Level Headed (Imp),
Wizard Gear: Magical armor (+6), other magical items. Special Abilities:  Death Touch: Liches drain the lives of
those around them with a touch. Instead of a normal attack, a lich may make a Touch Attack (page 108). Every raise on its Fighting roll automatically inflicts one Wound to its target.  Spells: Liches have 50 Power Points and know most every spell available.  Undead: +2 Toughness; +2 to recover from being Shaken; no additional damage from Called Shots; ignores 1 point of Wound penalties; doesn't breathe; immune to disease and poison.  Zombie: Liches are necromancers first and foremost. The undead they raise through the zombie spell are permanent, and they may raise skeletons just like zombies as they choose. Some liches have built up entire armies of the undead at their disposal.

Mech
These stats are for a 12-foot-tall mechanized sentinel, as found in a hard scifi campaign. This is a light patrol-style platform with reasonable intelligence, a sensor package, and high maneuverability. Larger mechs outfitted for battle have substantially more armor, are larger, and have more specialized weaponry.
Attributes: Agility d4, Smarts d6, Spirit d4, Strength d12+4, Vigor d8
Skills: Fighting d6, Notice d10, Shooting d8 Pace: 10; Parry: 5; Toughness: 14 (4) Edges: Alertness (Sensors). Gear: Typically a machine gun or flame-
thrower. Special Abilities:  Armor +4  Construct: +2 to recover from being Shaken;
ignores 1 point of Wound penalties; does not breathe or suffer from disease or poison.  Fearless: Mechs are immune to Fear and Intimidation, but may be smart enough to react to fear-causing situations aptly.  Night Vision: Sensor packages ignore penalties for Illumination.  Size 4 (Large): The mech stands 15 tall.

Bestiary

185

SAVAGE WORLDS

Minotaur
Minotaurs stand over seven feet tall and have massive, bull-like heads and horns. In many fantasy worlds, they are used as guardians of labyrinths. In others, they are simply another race of creatures occupying a fantastically savage land. In all cases, they are fierce beasts eager for battle and the taste of their opponents' flesh.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d6, Spirit d8, Strength d12+3, Vigor d12
Skills: Athletics d8, Common Knowledge d6, Fighting d10, Intimidation d12, Notice d10, Persuasion d4, Stealth d8
Pace: 8; Parry: 7 or 8 (spear); Toughness: 12 (1) Edges: Fleet-Footed Gear: Leather armor (+1), spear (Str+d6,
Reach 1, Parry+1). Special Abilities:  Horns: Str+d4.  Resilient: Minotaurs can take one Wound
before they're Incapacitated.  Size 3: Minotaurs stand over 7 tall and
have the mass of bulls.
Mule
Mules are a cross between a donkey and a horse, and are usually used to haul heavy goods or pull wagons.
Like any good pet, the GM should give the mule a little personality. The expression "stubborn as a mule" certainly comes to mind.
Attributes: Agility d4, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d6, Strength d8, Vigor d8
Skills: Athletics d4, Notice d4 Pace: 6; Parry: 2; Toughness: 8 Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Kick: Str.  Ornery: Mules are contrary creatures.
Characters must subtract 1 from their Riding rolls when riding them.  Size 2: Mules are stocky creatures usually weighing under 1000 pounds.
Ogre
Ogres are kin to orcs and lesser giants. They are often taken in by orc clans, who respect the dumb brutes for their savagery and strength. Orcs often pit their "pet" ogres in savage combats against their rivals'.

Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d4, Spirit d6, Strength d12+2, Vigor d12
Skills: Athletics d6, Common Knowledge d6, Fighting d8, Intimidation d8, Notice d4, Persuasion d4
Pace: 7; Parry: 6; Toughness: 11 (1) Edges: Brute, Sweep Gear: Thick hides (+1), massive club (Str+d8). Special Abilities:  Resilient: Ogres can take one Wound before
they're Incapacitated.  Size 2: Most ogres are over 8 tall with pot-
bellies and massive arms and legs.
Orc
Orcs are savage, green-skinned humanoids with pig-like features, including snouts and sometimes even tusks. They have foul temperaments and rarely take prisoners.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d4, Spirit d6, Strength d8, Vigor d8
Skills: Athletics d6, Common Knowledge d6, Fighting d6, Intimidation d8, Notice d6, Persuasion d4, Shooting d6, Stealth d6
Pace: 6; Parry: 5; Toughness: 8 (1) Edges: Brute. Gear: Leather armor (+1), scimitar (Str+d8). Special Abilities:  Infravision: Halve penalties for Illumin
ation when attacking warm targets.  Size 1: Orcs are slightly larger than humans.
WOrc, Chieftain
The leader of a small orc clan is always the most deadly brute in the bunch. Orc chieftains generally have a magical item or two in settings where such things are relatively common (most "swords & sorcery" worlds).
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d6, Spirit d6, Strength d10, Vigor d10
Skills: Athletics d8, Common Knowledge d8, Fighting d12, Intimidation d10, Notice d6, Persuasion d6, Shooting d8, Stealth d6
Pace: 6; Parry: 8 (7 with great axe); Toughness: 12 (4)
Gear: Plate corselet (+4), chain arms and legs (+3), great axe (Str+d10).
Edges: Brute, Sweep Special Abilities:  Infravision: Halve penalties for Illumin
ation when attacking warm targets.  Size 1: Orcs are slightly larger than humans.

186

Raptor (Birds of Prey)
Eagles, hawks, and similar large birds of prey are collectively termed "raptors" (not to be confused with the dinosaur variety).
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d6, Strength d4-2, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d8, Fighting d6, Notice d10, Stealth d8
Pace: 3; Parry: 5; Toughness: 2 Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Bite/Claws: Str+d4.  Flight: Raptors fly at a Pace of 48.  Size -3 (Very Small): Raptors are light
weight and about two feet tall.

Skeleton
The skin has already rotted from these risen dead, leaving them slightly quicker than their flesh-laden zombie counterparts. They are often found swarming in vile necromancers' legions.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d4, Spirit d4, Strength d6, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d6, Fighting d6, Intimidation d6, Notice d4, Shooting d6
Pace: 7; Parry: 5; Toughness: 7 Edges: -- Gear: Varies. Special Abilities:  Claws: Str+d4.

Shark
These statistics cover bull sharks and white tips.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d6, Strength d8 (d10 for bull shark), Vigor d8
Skills: Athletics d8, Fighting d8, Notice d12, Stealth d8
Pace: --; Parry: 6; Toughness: 7 Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Aquatic: Pace 10.  Bite: Str+d6.  Size 1: Sharks up to 500 pounds.
Shark, Great White
These statistics cover great whites, 18 to 25 feet long.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d8, Strength d12+4, Vigor d12
Skills: Athletics d8, Fighting d10, Notice d12, Stealth d12
Pace: --; Parry: 7; Toughness: 12 Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Aquatic: Pace 10.  Bite: Str+d8.  Hardy: The creature does not suffer a
Wound from being Shaken twice.  Size 4 (Large): Great whites can
grow up to 25 in length.

Bestiary

187

SAVAGE WORLDS

 Fearless: Skeletons are immune to Fear and Intimidation.
 Undead: +2 Toughness; +2 to recover from being Shaken; no additional damage from Called Shots; ignores 1 point of Wound penalties; doesn't breathe; immune to disease and poison.
Snake
Snakes in the real world are rarely aggressive unless cornered or frightened. They're a staple of adventure fiction, however, so here are two of the most common.
Constrictors
Pythons, boa constrictors, and other snakes over 15 long are rarely deadly to man in the real world because they aren't particularly aggressive. In games, however, such snakes might be provoked, drugged, or just plain mean.
Attributes: Agility d4, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d8, Strength d6, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d6, Fighting d6, Notice d10, Stealth d6
Pace: 4; Parry: 5; Toughness: 5 Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Bite: Str.  Constrict: +2 to Athletics and Strength rolls
made to grapple.
Venomous
Here are the stats for Taipans (Australian brown snakes), cobras, and similar mediumsized snakes with extremely deadly poison.

Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d6, Strength d4-2, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d6, Fighting d8, Notice d12, Stealth d8
Pace: 4; Parry: 6; Toughness: 2 Edges: Quick Special Abilities:  Bite: Str+2.  Poison: The GM chooses what kind of
poison the viper injects (see Poison, page 129).  Size -3 (Very Small): Most venomous snakes are 4­6 in length, but only a few inches thick.
Soldier
Goons, grunts, soldiers, or others with basic training serve as foot soldiers for more pow erful characters. They should be customized and outfitted to fit their particular role.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d4, Spirit d6, Strength d6, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d6, Common Knowledge d6, Fighting d6, Intimidation d6, Notice d6, Persuasion d6, Shooting d6, Stealth d4
Pace: 6; Parry: 5; Toughness: 5 Hindrances: -- Edges: Soldier
Spider, Giant
Giant spiders are about the size of large dogs and live in nests of 1d6 + 2 arachnids. They frequently go hunting in packs when prey is scarce in their home lair.
Their dens are littered with the bones and treasures of their victims, often providing ripe pickings for those brave enough to venture within.

Attributes: Agility d10, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d6, Strength d10, Vigor d6 Skills: Athletics d10, Fighting d8, Intimidation d10, Notice d8, Shooting d10, Stealth d10 Pace: 8; Parry: 6; Toughness: 4 Edges: -- Special Abilities: Bite: Str+d4. Poison (-4): Usually Mild or Lethal. See page 129. Size -1: These spiders are dog-sized.

188

 Wall Walker: The creatures move at their full Pace on walls and ceilings! Creepy!
 Webbing: The spiders can cast webs from their thorax that are the size of Small Blast Templates. This is a Shooting roll with a Range of 6. A hit means the victim is Entangled, or Bound with a raise (see Bound & Entangled, page 98).
Swarm
Sometimes the most deadly foes come in the smallest packages. The swarm described here can be of most anything -- from biting ants to stinging wasps to filthy rats. They cover an area equal to a Large, Medium, or Small Blast Template and attack everyone within it every round. When a swarm is Incapacitated it's effectively dispersed.
Swarms aren't intelligent enough to do anything but move and bite and shouldn't take Multi-Actions, make Tests, etc.
Attributes: Agility d10, Smarts d4 (A), Spirit d12, Strength d8, Vigor d10
Skills: Notice d6 Pace: 10; Parry: 4; Toughness: 7 Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Bite or Sting: Swarms inflict hundreds of
tiny bites or stings every round, hitting automatically (unless Shaken) and causing 2d4 damage to everyone in the template at the end of their turn. Damage is applied to the least armored location (those in completely sealed suits are immune).  Split: Some swarms split into two smaller swarms when Wounded (GM's call). Reduce the Blast Template one size after a Wound; Small swarms are destroyed.  Swarm: +2 to recover from being Shaken, Parry +2. Swarms are composed of many small creatures, so cutting and piercing weapons do no real damage. Area effect attacks work normally, and a character can stomp to inflict his damage in Strength each round. Some swarms (bees, hornets, birds) may be foiled by total immersion in water.
Troll
Trolls in myths and legends are horrid, flesheating creatures who live in deep woods, beneath bridges, or in hidden mountain caves. In modern games and fiction, trolls

are monsters with the ability to regenerate damage other than that caused by fire. These statistics reflect both backgrounds.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d4, Spirit d6, Strength d12+2, Vigor d10
Skills: Athletics d6, Common Knowledge d8, Fighting d8, Intimidation d10, Notice d6, Stealth d4
Pace: 7; Parry: 6; Toughness: 9 (1) Gear: Spiked club (Str+d8). Edges: Brute, Sweep (Imp) Special Abilities:  Armor +1: Rubbery hide.  Bite/Claws: Str+d4.  Fast Regeneration: Trolls may attempt a
natural healing roll every round, even if Incapacitated, unless their Wounds were caused by fire or flame or they're put to the torch afterward.  Resilient: Trolls can take one Wound before they're Incapacitated.  Size 1: Trolls are 8' tall, lanky creatures.
WVampire
Blood-drinkers of lore are common in many fantasy games. This is a relatively young vampire minion. For weaker vampires, ignore the Invulnerability Special Ability.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d8, Spirit d8, Strength d12+1, Vigor d10
Skills: Athletics d8, Common Knowledge d8, Fighting d8, Intimidation d8, Notice d6, Persuasion d8, Shooting d6, Stealth d10
Pace: 6; Parry: 6; Toughness: 9 Edges: Frenzy, Level Headed Special Abilities:  Bite/Claws: Str+d4.  Invulnerability: Vampires can only be
slain by sunlight or a stake through the heart (see those Weaknesses, below). They may be Shaken by other attacks, but never Wounded.  Sire: Anyone slain by a vampire has a 50% chance of rising as a vampire in 1d4 days.  Undead: +2 Toughness; +2 to recover from being Shaken; no additional damage from Called Shots; ignores 1 point of Wound penalties; doesn't breathe; immune to disease and poison.  Weakness (Holy Symbol): A character with a holy symbol may keep a vampire at bay by displaying a holy symbol. A vampire

Bestiary

189

SAVAGE WORLDS

who wants to directly attack the victim must beat her in an opposed Spirit roll.  Weakness (Holy Water ): A vampire sprinkled with holy water is Fatigued. If immersed, he combusts as if it were direct sunlight (see below).  Weakness (Invitation Only): Vampires can not enter a private dwelling without being invited. They may enter public domains as they please.  Weakness (Stake Through the Heart): A vampire hit with a Called Shot to the heart (-4) must make a Vigor roll versus the damage. If successful, it takes damage normally. If it fails, it disintegrates to dust.  Weakness (Sunlight): Vampires burn in sunlight. They take 2d4 damage per round until they are ash. Armor protects normally.
WAncient Vampire
These statistics are for a vampire somewhat below the legendary Dracula, but far above those bloodsuckers fresh from the grave. The abilities listed here are standard -- the GM may want to add other Edges as befit the vampire's previous lifestyle.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d10, Spirit d10, Strength d12+3, Vigor d12
Skills: Athletics d8, Common Knowledge d10, Fighting d10, Intimidation d12, Notice d8, Persuasion d12, Shooting d8, Stealth d10
Pace: 6; Parry: 7; Toughness: 10 Edges: Frenzy (Imp), Level Headed Special Abilities:  Bite/Claws: Str+d4.  Change Form: As an action, a vampire can
change into a wolf or bat with a Smarts roll at -2. Changing back into humanoid form requires a Smarts roll.  Charm: Vampires can use the puppet power on those attracted to them (GM's call) using their Smarts as their arcane skill. They can cast and maintain the power indefinitely, but may only affect one target at a time.  Children of the Night: Ancient vampires have the ability to summon and control wolves or rats. This requires an action and a Smarts roll at -2. If successful, 1d6 wolves or 1d6 swarms of rats (see Swarm on page 189) come from the surrounding wilds in 1d6+2 rounds.  Invulnerability: Vampires can only be slain by sunlight or a stake through the heart (see

those Weaknesses, below). They may be Shaken by other attacks, but never Wounded.  Mist: Ancient vampires have the ability to turn into mist. Doing so (or returning to human form) requires an action and a Smarts roll at -2.  Sire: Anyone slain by a vampire has a 50% chance of rising as a vampire in 1d4 days.  Undead: +2 Toughness; +2 to recover from being Shaken; no additional damage from Called Shots; ignores 1 point of Wound penalties; doesn't breathe; immune to disease and poison.  Weakness (Holy Symbol): A character may keep a vampire at bay by displaying a holy symbol. A vampire who wants to directly attack the victim must beat her in an opposed Spirit roll.  Weakness (Holy Water ): A vampire sprinkled with holy water is Fatigued. If immersed, he combusts as if it were direct sunlight (see below).  Weakness (Invitation Only): Vampires cannot enter a private dwelling without being invited. They may enter public domains as they please.  Weakness (Stake Through the Heart): A vampire hit with a Called Shot to the heart (-4) must make a Vigor roll versus the damage total. If successful, it takes damage normally. If it fails, it disintegrates to dust.  Weakness (Sunlight): Vampires burn in sunlight. They take 2d4 damage per round until they are ash. Armor protects normally.
Werewolf
When a full moon emerges, humans infected with lycanthropy lose control and become snarling creatures bent on murder. Some embrace their cursed state and revel in the destruction they cause.
Customize the Special Abilities that make sense for your particular flesh-ripper. Older or "pure-blood" lycanthropes may be Invulnerable to all but silver or magic, for example.
Attributes: Agility d8, Smarts d6, Spirit d6, Strength d12+2, Vigor d10
Skills: Athletics d8, Common Knowledge d8, Fighting d12+2, Intimidation d10, Notice d12, Stealth d10, Survival d10
Pace: 8; Parry: 9; Toughness: 8 Edges: --

190

Special Abilities:  Bite/Claws: Str+d8.  Fast Regeneration: Werewolves may attempt
a natural healing roll every round unless the Wounds were caused by silvered objects.  Fear (-2): Werewolves chill the blood of all who see them.  Infection: Anyone slain by a werew olf has a 50% chance of rising as a werewolf themselves. The character involuntarily transforms every full moon. He gains control of his lycanthropy only after 1d6 years as a werewolf.  Infravision: Halve penalties for Illumination when attacking warm targets.  Size 1: Werewolves are stout creatures.

Zombie
These walking dead are typical groaning fiends looking for fresh meat.
Attributes: Agility d6, Smarts d4, Spirit d4, Strength d6, Vigor d6
Skills: Athletics d4, Fighting d6, Intimidation d6, Notice d4, Shooting d6
Pace: 4; Parry: 5; Toughness: 7 Edges: -- Special Abilities:  Bite/Claws: Str.  Fearless: Zombies are immune to Fear and
Intimidation.  Undead: +2 Toughness; +2 to recover from
being Shaken; no additional damage from Called Shots; ignores 1 point of Wound penalties; doesn't breathe; immune to disease and poison.  Weakness (Head): Called Shots to a zombie's head do the usual +4 damage.

Bestiary

191

Chapter Seven
Game Mastering

A group of heroes embarks upon an epic quest. Terrible monsters and bitter rivals oppose them. The elements are against them. Mysteries must be solved, artifacts found, innocents saved.
It's your privilege as Game Master to bring all these fantastic elements to life, challenging your players with adventure beyond their wildest imaginations and providing a framework to find out if they succeed or fail in their ultimate goal.

Everything else in this book, from all those Chase maneuvers to Interludes and Situational Rules can be ignored until you need them.
A great way to learn the core rules is to run a simple fight on your own first. Put a Wild Card fighter and three skeletons on the table in front of you and have at it. Your only goal is to get a feel for rolling the dice, figuring totals from Aces and modifiers, rolling and applying damage, and Soaking Wounds.

This is the fun of being a Game Master -- Once you've got the hang of that, you're

creating, managing, and presenting an entire ready to run your first game. Don't worry

world of excitement and adventure to your if you and your friends have to look a few

friends and peers. It can be one of the most things up the first time. And don't be afraid

satisfying entertainment experiences in not to look things up and just wing it if you're

existence and Savage Worlds is designed to in the middle of a good story and want to

help you ruthlessly wring every tension-filled move on. The vast majority of the experience

moment and gut-busting laugh from it.

is just you and your friends talking and

So now you've read the rules and probably have more ideas for a new campaign than you know what to do with, but before you dive

making some skill rolls. All those extra rules are there when you want or need them to help make a decision.

in, let's take a moment to talk about the art of being a good Game Master, leading your group, creating worlds, and putting together memorable and exciting adventures.

Your Game
You might think the first step in starting a new game is finding a group of people to play with. That is important, but don't do that

Learning the Rules

yet. First get yourself excited. Figure out what

Don't be intimidated by all the rules in Savage Worlds. They're meant to handle most everything under the sun, but all you

you want to run and start jotting down ideas. Do that and you'll likely get all your friends excited as well.

need to start is how to resolve Trait rolls and Once you've figured out what kind of

basic combat.

setting you want to run, ask yourself what

types of characters your friends might play.

193

SAVAGE WORLDS

What might a typical adventure be like? Write down what makes your game cool, who the bad guys are, what kinds of magic or other supernatural aspects are present, and what your basic storyline is. If you have these elements, you likely have enough information to get your friends excited and ready to play.
Game Nights
Now it's time to recruit some players. You have a great campaign idea and enough information about it to explain it to your friends. The next step is to find out who wants to play and when they can get together.
It might be best to tell everyone when you'd like to run your game. You're the one person who must be there every session so the timing needs to work for you. You can alter it based on your friends' schedules, of course, but if you just ask when everyone is free you're going to spend a lot of time trying to manage a lot of often vague or conflicting preferences.
Most groups meet once a week, or every other week, depending on how busy everyone is. More important is that once you set a regular date you try and stick to it. If you rely on a fluctuating schedule people tend to forget or schedule conflicting events. People have busy lives, and as much as everyone involved might want to play, they still have to study for classes, take care of their children, work, manage personal events, and otherwise live their lives. If you have a set night every week, it's much easier for your friends to schedule most of their activities around it. It also helps you know when you have to be ready to run.

Don't rule out playing on weeknights. Friday and Saturday are great if you're single or in college but difficult for players who need to focus the weekends on their families. If you start at 6 p.m., your players have time to get off work, grab some food (or share the traditional pizza with the group!), and get deep into the game by 7 or so.
Most sessions should wrap things up by 11 p.m. or so. Most people tend to get a little tired by then and you don't want game night to be a stressful experience. Talk it over with your friends and see what works for them. Setting some basic rules helps everyone schedule their time and show up week after week.
You might want to end each game session with a cliffhanger, question, or quest. Hearing your players talk about what's going to happen next is one of the best rewards you can hope for when running a game!
Character Types
Once you have a game night and a few friends set to attend, give them some basic information on the setting and find out what kind of characters they want to play.
You don't need everyone to make characters at this point -- character creation in Savage Worlds is fast enough they can do it at your first session if you want. But if some of your friends have neat ideas as to their background or basic type (fighter, investigator, etc.), you can start doing more detail work on your story.
If you're going to run Deadlands, for example, and all your friends make combat

194

types you know they're looking for a highaction game. You can still mix in lots of other elements -- exploration, investigation, horror, deep roleplaying -- but every now and then set up a big bloody shootout as well.
Getting the Party Together
Now that you have the players together, you have to figure out why their characters are together. There are two common ways to handle this.
The Mission
One way to build a party is for a nonplayer character to offer a reward for adventurers to complete some task. Perhaps they answer a want ad, are hired in a smoky tavern, or are called on by connections or friends. Thrown together by fate and circumstance, the heroes must then learn to work as a team.
There's a problem that sometimes arises from this approach. Say you're running a fantasy campaign and the mission is to deliver a message to a distant city. But one of the characters in your group is a witch hunter. His player is all excited about making such a unique character, but you need him (and the others) to be a courier for now and accept the assignment to kick off your campaign.
Fortunately, there's an easy fix: let the player figure it out. Be honest and tell him this is what you need to get things started. Maybe the witch hunter is simply between jobs. Or maybe he's working under cover to root out some evil sorceress, or needs to earn gold to buy better arms and equipment for his true quest. Or maybe the employer or the recipient is an old friend (or enemy).
This approach not only helps get things moving but empowers the player and might give your campaign a new and interesting subplot!
Former Acquaintances
You can also start a campaign with all the characters already knowing each other. This works great for getting the game moving, and is very appropriate for certain campaign types. In Weird Wars settings, for example, the player characters have often served together for weeks, months, or even years. They know the basic faults and vices of their

companions. This is also a great way to kick off a convention game where your group only has a few hours to play.
Staying Together
After the first adventure, the players may wonder why their characters stay together. That's easy if they're employed by a common benefactor, or if similar groups are common to the setting (adventuring crews, military teams, and so on).
Staying together might be more difficult if the campaign goal isn't very clear though, or if some of the characters don't get along that well. How to fix this depends a lot on the type of game you're running. If there's a clear, overall objective or over-arching storyline, the party might stay together to defeat the greater evil, even if they aren't the best of friends.
If the campaign goal is more ambiguous, the best answer may be not to force the heroes to stay together. Consider a modern horror game. The players are thrust together in a haunted mansion for a weekend. Terrible things occur, but eventually at least some of the investigators survive and stagger back into daylight. Why would they then go out hunting vampires or searching for zombies the following week just because they had one incredible encounter together?
Maybe they don't. Maybe they all go home and try to forget what happened just like normal folks. Let a few days or weeks pass where nothing happens (narratively, of course). Later on, one of the characters gets involved in another creepy encounter. Now he knows a few others who might believe his wild tale so he calls for help.
Friction
So what happens if your group doesn't get along? That depends on whether it's the players or the characters who are arguing.
We won't give you advice on how to handle conflicts with your friends. You know them best and will have to figure out if there are certain individuals who just don't fit in this campaign. Remember though that friends are more important than games--even this one. If you and the rest of the group can't talk out your differences, find something else to do for a while that doesn't cause such friction.

Game Mastering

195

SAVAGE WORLDS

Maybe you can come back to the game once you've worked things out.
Friction between characters, on the other hand, is not only fine, it's actually encouraged to some degree. Any interesting group of personalities squabble and argue on occasion. As long as this is done in character it adds to the roleplaying experience and the depth of your campaign. Quiet fights between the heroes can often take on a life of their own, encouraging players to take you, the Game Master, aside or write you private notes about actions their heroes perform away from the prying eyes of others. Intrigue and betrayal are integral to good dramatic stories. Just make sure the group talks things out and keeps the conflict to their characters; not real life.
Campaign Types
Different groups like different types of games. Some like lots of combat, others want to explore the world, and some are into deep roleplaying and storytelling. Most people like a good mix. Here are some pointers on each.

Hack and Slash
A hack and slash game features lots of combat. With Savage Worlds, you can do more than pit your five player characters against a couple of orcs and an ogre. You can throw a whole horde at your heroes and give them a few staunch allies or henchmen to help as well!
The best part is that players who just want to wade into the forces of darkness with two blades slashing can do that too. More tactically-minded players can load up on Leadership Edges and direct the actions of hirelings and allies.
Players who like to think on their feet can use the Support and Test rules to defeat foes without ever making a single attack!
Some disparage hack and slash campaigns these days, but there's nothing wrong with enjoying a good tactical combat either --and there can be epic roleplaying even in the middle of massive fights.
Exploration
Wandering through lost cities, finding forgotten treasures, or reclaiming fallen civilizations is exciting for explorer-types.

196

The Great Unknown lurks behind every pile talk about. If the majority of your adventure

of toppled columns, and incredible treasures is a bunch of people standing in a room,

await those brave enough to take them from you're likely in for a slow night. If they're in

their mysterious guardians.

a room trying to find out which one of them

The trouble with exploration games is that they're often difficult for you, the Game Master, to create. All those incredible surprises, fearsome beasts, and awesome treasures have to be created, of course. Fortunately, Savage Worlds makes it easy to

is a murderer, the action will likely be quite exciting. And if the lights occasionally go out and another victim turns up dead, the interaction between characters can easily get as exciting as the most knock-down, drag-out dungeon crawl.

quickly create just about any creature, magic

item, or other surprise you can dream up.

Horror

One important tip here. The players don't have access to your creatures' statistics unless you show them. If you describe mysterious creatures of different shapes and sizes, they won't know they're all basically the same stats with just cosmetic or descriptive differences.

Most every game has an element of horror to it. New Game Masters often ask how to handle horror in their games. They have visions in their heads of their friends sitting around shivering in utter terror as gruesome fiends stalk their underpowered investigators.

It's hard to describe wonders in a game and keep them exciting. Ancient vases, strange pictograms, and archaeological sites set a great tone for exploration-style games but unless they convey meaning or occasionally provide some sort of game effect players can get bored quickly. It's hard for most to stay excited about detailed descriptions of Etruscan urns. Give them an occasional urn with a hidden bag of gold coins, or better yet an ancient wine that miraculously relieves Fatigue, and they'll be much more interested in sifting through the ruins.

In our experience, that's not very likely. There may certainly be moments like that, but more often your group will be sitting around eating nachos and making bad jokes to each other. The worst thing you can do is try and stop them. Remember they're there to have a good time and socialize while exercising their own imaginations. Let them enjoy themselves and don't try to be overly oppressive with the spooky stuff.
When the time comes and the weirdness begins, subtly change the tone a bit. Smile and dim the lights, then turn on some creepy

Roleplaying
Perhaps the trickiest type of campaign to run is one that involves deep roleplaying. It's easy to handle rules-wise -- there likely won't be much die rolling. The tricky part is knowing when to push the team into a new situation or event and when to just let them talk to each other or your nonplayer characters.
Being able to create characters and creatures on the fly helps tremendously here. You can jot down a few notes about a character's most important Edges, Hindrances, or skills

music -- just loud enough for them to hear it without being intrusive. If what you're running is genuinely creepy, your group will be relaxed and willing to go with the flow and let the heebie-jeebies take over. Try and force them and it will almost certainly backfire.
Whatever you do, when the group finally encounters some horrid monster, make sure to describe it rather than refer to it by name. A "large, lanky, green-skinned creature with drool dripping from its fangs and beady black eyes" is much more frightening than "a troll."

and move on. That way you can concentrate on giving your Extras more personality and worry less about calculating their Parry or Toughness--at least until they get into a fight!
Another thing to be careful about when running a game that's heavy on roleplaying is making sure there are at least a few events

" RsispemiadienRrdEesrAaLt. LTGhYraBboAewDi&nigdEepmari...lo"y p --The G M


scheduled to give the group something to

Game Mastering

197

SAVAGE WORLDS

Running the Game

If so, you can then try one of our more involved settings, like Deadlands, Necessary

Evil, Rippers, one of our excellent licensees'

Savage Worlds has been designed from the ground up to make the job of the Game Master as easy as possible. The designers

worlds, or even one of your own creation. You can also convert your favorite game world into the Savage Worlds rules.

Balance want you to concentrate on making incredible
and exciting memories with your friends. We

aren't interested in spending hours before Some games have very strict rules for how

the game creating statistics for Karlos the to balance encounters so that every fight is

Innkeeper.

"fair." The battle might be a tough one, but it's

That means you can concentrate on creating still expected the heroes can win if they play intricate plots, tricky puzzles, and interesting smart and have decent luck.

characters. You don't have to do complex In Savage Worlds, most set piece encounters

math to make your nonplayer characters and should be reasonably balanced for the

monsters, and you certainly don't need to expected power level of the group, but this

spend more than a minute or two to make up isn't always the case. Sometimes it's just

bandits for a quick ambush.

as interesting for the players to evaluate a

Your job is kept easy during the game as well since there's very little bookkeeping. You might have to track a few Wild Card villains' Wounds, but other than that, the foes are up and acting normally, Shaken, or removed from play. You can focus on describing the

situation and realize they probably can't win -- at least not by charging in guns blazing. This is desirable on occasion as it encourages the group to think, talk, plan, and come up with clever solutions to the most challenging situations.

action instead of trying to record "2 hit points Game Masters should never be afraid to

of damage on the skeleton figure with the let the opposition flex their muscles. These

chipped paint on his sword."

are savage worlds, after all, and triumphing

Take advantage of these things to give against these foes should be a major yourself a break and run a game like you accomplishment--not a given.

never have before. If you want to spend a lot That brings us to failure. If a monster or

of time on your campaign, make some cool villain defeats the party, take a moment

props, work on your plots and subplots, and to talk to the group and remind them that

give your monsters a few memorable Special the greatest heroes often experience such

Abilities (and maybe even playtest them all setbacks. How they pick themselves up and

by yourself to make sure they work how carry on after is what truly defines them.

you want).

Failure is also often more interesting than

Introducing New Players

success. Say a young lord challenges a barbarian to a one-on-one fight to bring peace

Getting your friends to try a new game, especially if they're used to one system and don't like to try many others, can be pretty difficult. We recommend printing the free Test Drive rules from our website and giving them to each of your friends. This will show them what Savage Worlds is all about and

to their lands. The young lord loses and the player characters assigned to protect him decide to violate the rules of the truce. They step in and kill the barbarian champion! The noble is now disgraced but must somehow continue to lead those who sacrificed their own honor to save him.

encourage them to try it at least once. If you run one of the free adventures from our site with pregenerated characters from one of our settings it should be very easy for everyone to jump in, play a short session, and figure out if it's for them. We hope it is of course.

Crafting a Challenge
Once you've played Savage Worlds for a while you should have a good feel for how many foes to throw at your adventurers. Here's some general advice, but make sure to think about additional advantages either side

198

Experience might have (traps, support, powerful magic
items, or favorable terrain).

· A Novice Wild Card hero with at least some In general, player characters at the start

combat ability should be able to take on of Savage Worlds campaigns are of Novice

three average foes (those with mostly d6s in Rank. They have a little training and talent

everything and normal arms and armor), or but haven't had many adventures on

two foes with better skills, arms, or armor. their own yet.

· As the party's Rank increases, the number This bears repeating: Novice characters are

or quality of foes should increase as well. "novices." They have a little more skill and

· A good fight for a party of heroes is two ability than most but are only just beginning

Extras per hero plus an enemy Wild Card their careers. They aren't expected to take on

leader with roughly the same number of dragons or arch villains -- they're expected

combat Edges (or other advantages).

to earn their way to those penultimate

Experiment with these compositions until confrontations.

you have a feel for the game. Then you can try more powerful opponents or increased numbers of less powerful foes.

Of course, that's a typical campaign. You may also want to start with more experienced characters. That's encouraged for really

If a fight is going poorly, you don't have to difficult worlds or for shorter campaigns

"fudge" the rivals' dice rolls or put them down where the heroes need to get to the heart of

when the situation didn't really deserve the action a little quicker. A commando raid

it. That feels cheap and undeserved to the in Weird War Two, an assault on a lich's lair, or

players. Instead, reward the heroes with super spies infiltrating a diabolical villain's

Bennies when you have the chance. That will base are not adventures for the untrained.

help them succeed when they need to and If you do start with experienced heroes,

Soak Wounds.

make sure players create their characters as

But also...don't be afraid to let them Novices and then Advance them normally.

fail. It doesn't have to be a TPK (Total Party That ensures Edges, ability points, and

Kill). Maybe they wake up in their enemy's powers are purchased correctly so that

dungeons or are bound and on a train to some characters retain the balance built into each

distant locale. Both are just excuses for new of those systems.

adventures and obstacles to overcome--not

the end of the campaign.

Game Mastering

199

Start experienced characters as Seasoned, or very rarely, Veterans, when first trying this out. Once you have a good feel for it, you can go as high as you want. A tournament of Legendary characters is an amazing spectacle!

Then they have to rely on Jokers or those really big moments for rewards -- jumping on the dragon's back, leaping through a stained glass window, a particularly good Taunt against the villain, and so on.

SAVAGE WORLDS

Bennies

Interpret the Die Rolls

Bennies are the true economy of Savage Worlds. They allow you to reward creative players for their actions, entertaining the group, and playing in character.
New Savage Worlds Game Masters often forget to award them or are afraid Bennies will make things too easy for the party. They won't. When players have lots of Bennies, they tend to spend them on what's important to their character rather than just hoarding them to stay alive. If Bennies are scarce, they'll definitely do the latter, and, the game's balance is built around their constant flow. Remember that the rerolls they grant guarantee nothing. A player might spend five Bennies on a simple Notice roll and still fail. It's not likely, but it's definitely possible.
So when do you award them? Anytime a player does something clever, finds an important clue, or roleplays his character, particularly if it involves their Hindrances or background. If a Loyal character jeopardizes his life to save his comrade, he definitely deserves a Benny for his efforts. If a Slow hero tells the others to go on while he stays back to fight the pack of wolves at their heels because he knows he's slowing down the rest of the group, reward him for it!
It also never hurts to reward a player for a great line, side-splitting in-game joke; or even better when she pulls off a serious and dramatic moment.
Once a player has been rewarded for some thing, you can stop or slow down rewarding the same behavior. A running joke shouldn't grant a Benny every time it's mentioned, for example. Risking real danger for the Heroic Hindrance, however, should almost always result in a reward.
Bennies usually flow at the start of the adventure as players roleplay and get used to the game. They slow down later once those traits have been rewarded a few times already. By the climax, Bennies might be fairly scarce, both in the players' stacks and as rewards.

Savage Worlds frequently features wild and unpredictable die rolls. When this happens, go with it! If a hero has to jump from a wrecked car as it careens out of control and makes an amazing Athletics roll, describe how he leaps into the air, tucks and rolls on the ground, and comes up on his feet with perfect balance. Similarly, don't be afraid to throw some bad luck at him when he gets a really poor roll. Maybe while using the Chase rules a player skis down a mountain to escape a rampaging yeti and rolls snake eyes! Describe how he tumbles, rolling and tumbling through the cold, wet snow as the beast bounds after his fallen prey.
Your players will love the extra embellish ment. They'll feel powerful and cool when the dice are nice, and danger and excitement when the dice betray them, especially if you take a moment to make the setback interesting. That's what makes a Critical Failure on a Fighting attack, for example, go from feeling like a lost turn to a memorable part of the story.
Pacing
A good Game Master must pay attention to the pace of the game. Sometimes your friends will want to take their time roleplaying their characters, interacting with the world, or even just joking out of character and enjoying the social aspect of the game. If this goes on too long, however, they may need a little prodding.
This can be especially true in open adventures such as a murder mystery that requires the players to figure out where their characters go and what they should do (as opposed to a dungeon crawl or similar adventure where they really only need to decide if they're pressing forward or not).
If most or all of the group is roleplaying, smiling, and having a good time -- leave them alone. Let them set the tempo. If you notice

200

some of your players are left out or looking a little bored, prod the group to see what they want to next. If they seem lost as to what to do next, ask one of the group to recount the clues or situation as they understand it. This is often enough to spark an idea or lead they want to follow up on. You might also introduce new information via a call or visit from a nonplayer character.
Finally, don't be afraid to contrive an encounter that gives the group a new path to follow. Maybe the team is attacked by their rivals and in the aftermath are able to gather a new clue from the survivors.
Combat Pacing
Just as important as keeping the plot moving forward is making sure combats are fast and furious. As you count down the Action Cards, make each player tell you what his character is doing fairly quickly. If he needs a moment, put his character on Hold and move on to the next player.
If you feel the scene should be particularly dramatic and a player doesn't announce his character's intentions quickly enough, start counting down... "What do you do? 5, 4, 3...!" That will get all the players' blood pumping and reinforce the notion that their characters are in a dangerous situation that requires quick decisions and big heroics. Most of the time, rush things along. Make them feel the urgency of combat. Make them a little nervous. Make them realize things are

desperate and that the next die roll better be a good one.
That's not to say there aren't times when you want to give a player a moment to think -- particularly if they have a big plan or need to look up something really important, like the details of a power or a special rule.
You might also occasionally give the entire group a moment. If a terrible foe shows up after a few rounds of combat, a quick bathroom break gives everyone a moment to soak in the fact that things just got more challenging.
Feel the moment and play up the drama befitting your scenario, the environment, and the party's mood, and let them plan and strategize a bit if it makes sense or will benefit the game.
"I r ead once that Extr as can usually only take one Wound so they'r e `up, down,
or off the table!' That keeps thing s Fast, Fur ious,
and FUN and is kinda the cor e of how combat wor ks for the baddies."
--The G M

Game Mastering

201

SAVAGE WORLDS

Extras

Allies
Though it's rarely written, most games

The backbone of any good game is the world assume the Game Master controls the

that surrounds the player characters, and nonplayer characters, both when they're

nonplayer characters are a big part of that. being talked to and when they fight alongside

This section shows you how to breathe life the player characters in combat. The latter is a

into the supporting cast of your world.

burden for the GM, who often simply forgets

Creating Extras

about the additional characters during a fight, or shoves them off to the side and narratively

Consider this Game Master's Rule #1 when it describes what happens to them. This goes

comes to Extras: Don't "build" them!

for hirelings as well as animal companions,

Don't create your Extras with the character creation rules. Just give them what you think they ought to have in their various skills and

sidekicks, or love interests. The simple fact is that in most games, allies are a cumbersome complication.

attributes and move on. The game is supposed Savage Worlds takes a very different approach

to be easy for you to set up, run, and play. --we turn control of allies over to the player

Don't sit around adding up skill points for characters. The GM acts out these allies when

Extras when you could be designing fiendish they're spoken to, of course, but should very

traps and thinking up nasty Special Abilities rarely, if ever, take them over in combat.

for your monsters!

If you allow your heroes to have allies, you

Personality
Far more important than most nonplayer character's statistics are their personalities. Jot down a note or two about any Extras the party is likely to come across so you'll have some idea how to run them. Some Game Masters find it useful to identify prominent Extras with actors or characters from film, television, books, or comics.
Knowing that the Captain of the City Guard is "played by Sam Elliot," for instance, gives you a good handle on how to handle interactions with him. He's likely to be gruff, to the point, and have a deep, throaty voice.

can include all the minions your villains should have as well. Picture an ancient lich in his unholy tomb. Would he be sitting there alone? No, he'd be surrounded by scores of ghoulish undead. These lesser minions make great complications for your battles and your players will have fun bashing through them with the Extras while their heroes battle the lich and his named lieutenants.
This takes a little getting used to if you've been Game Mastering other games for a long time. We suggest you try it for a bit and see how it works out. You can always change if it doesn't make sense for your group.

Adding these additional touches to the Artificial Inflation

characters can really make them stand out When running Savage Worlds, a lot of Game

and be remembered. The grizzled sergeant Masters become extremely enamored with

of the city watch becomes a memorable the ally aspect of the game. Sometimes that

character they may call on in the future rather leads to very large parties of player characters

than just a momentary encounter they forget and their followers, which then demands

by the next scene. Not every Extra needs this very large parties of opponents.

kind of depth, of course, but those that do add a level of realism, continuity, and most importantly immersion to your game.

It's okay if you do this--the system can handle it -- but be warned that a combat with 50+ combatants will take a bit, even with a

fast and furious system like this one!

"Nate and laug h.

Emily I have

hate it when I to make sur e

do to

the C ackler's cr az do it mor e often!"

y

--The

GM

202

State Summaries
Distracted & Vulnerable
 DISTRACTED: The character suffers -2 to all Trait rolls until the end of his next turn.  VULNERABLE: Actions and attacks against the target are made at +2 until the end of
his next turn. This doesn't stack with The Drop (page 100)--use only the highest.
Entangled & Bound
 ENTANGLED: The victim can't move and is Vulnerable as long as he remains Entangled.  BOUND: The victim may not move, is Distracted and Vulnerable as long as he remains
Bound, and cannot make physical actions other than trying to break free.
Fatigued
 FATIGUED: The victim subtracts 1 from all Trait rolls. If he takes another level of Fatigue, he's Exhausted.
 EXHAUSTED: The victim subtracts 2 from all Trait rolls. If he takes another level of Fatigue, he's Incapacitated.
 RECOVERY: Unless otherwise specified by the source, Fatigue and Exhaustion improve one level per hour.
Injuries
 INCAPACITATION: Characters may not perform actions but are still dealt Action Cards to track power effects or in case they recover.
 SHAKEN: Shaken characters may only move and take free actions. At the start of their turn, characters automatically make a Spirit roll to recover from being Shaken as a free action.
 STUNNED: A Stunned character is Distracted (until end of next turn), Vulnerable (until recovery), and doesn't count for Gang Up. He also falls prone, can't take actions, or move. At the start of each of his turns, he makes a Vigor roll as a free action to revive. Success means he is no longer Stunned but remains Vulnerable until the end of his next turn; a raise means he stops being Vulnerable at the end of this turn.
 WOUNDS: The hero has been injured in a way that makes her actions more difficult. Each Wound reduces her Pace by 1 (to a minimum of 1) and inflicts a -1 penalty to all Trait rolls (to a maximum of -3). Wounds beyond the character's limit Incapacitate her.
203

Game Mastering

SAVAGE WORLDS

Stream
Large Blast Template

Small Blast Template
204

Small Blast Template

TEMPLATES

Template
Cone Template
Medium Blast Template
205

Index

SAVAGE WORLDS

Symbols 4WD. See Four-Wheel Drive
A Acceleration.................................... 82 Aces.................................................. 88 Action......................................... 91, 92 Action Cards............. 90­91, 113, 122 Action Deck.......................................6 Activation...................................... 153 Advancement.................................. 54 Agility........................................ 10, 29 Aim................................................... 97 Air Bags....................................82, 118 Aircraft............................................. 84 Allies................... 111. See also Extras
Advancement............................... 54 Personalities............................... 112 Alligator/Crocodile......................180 AMCM. See Anti-Missile Counter Measures Ammo...................................... 68, 132 Ammo Level..................................112 Amphibious.................................... 82 Ancestral Abilities Negative.......................................20 Positive......................................... 18 Ancestries Making.......................................... 18 Androids.......................................... 12 Anti-Missile Counter Measures....82 Anti-Missile Systems.....................79 AP. See Armor Piercing Aquarians........................................ 13 Aquatic........................................... 175 Arcane Backgrounds.................... 147 Arcane Devices.....................153­154 Arcane Skill................................... 147 Area Effect Attacks............. 78, 80, 97 Armor................................. 65, 69, 175 Ancient.......................................... 69 Futuristic......................................70 Medieval....................................... 69 Modern.........................................70 Shields.......................................... 71 Armor Piercing....................... 65, 152 Attacks..................................... 93, 117 Attendant....................................... 169 Attributes................................... 10, 29 Availability.................................... 145 Avions.............................................. 13 Awards............................................. 89
B Background..................................... 11 Backlash......................................... 151
Dynamic..................................... 138 Battle Effects..................................132 Battle Modifiers............................ 131 Bear................................................180 Bennies...................... 89, 95, 138, 200
Awarding......................................90 Game Master................................89 Player Character..........................89 Bite................................................. 175 Blast Templates....... 97. See also Area Effect Attacks Bleeding Out.............................95­96
206

Board.............................................. 115 Boarders........................................ 114 Bodyguard.................................... 169 Bombard.......................................... 77 Bonus Damage...............................94 Born A Hero..................................136 Bound...................................... 98, 101 Breath Weapons...........................175 Bulky Items..................................... 67 Bull.................................................180 Bump............................................. 116 Bumps & Bruises..........................125 Burrowing..................................... 175
C Caliber............................................. 65 Called Shots............................ 98, 106
Vehicles....................................... 117 Campaign Types..........................196 Canister........................................... 77 Cannons........................................... 77 Catapults......................................... 77 Cat, Small...................................... 181 Cauterize......................................... 76 Celestial..................................... 20­21 Character Creation Summary......55 Characters, Replacement..............54 Charging........................................ 103 Chase............................................. 113
Actions........................................ 114 Cards...................113­117, 119­120 Customization........................... 119 Rounds........................................ 114 Climb............................................... 82 Climbing........................................ 125 Cold................................................ 125 Collisions....................................... 118 Combat............................................ 91 Command Range...........................44 Companion....................................... 7 Complications....................... 116, 123 Concept............................................. 9 Cone Template................................ 97 Construct....................................... 176 Conviction..................................... 136 Countdown..............................92. See also Action Cards Cover.................................... 61, 97, 99 Bonus............................................ 99 Penalties....................................... 99 Creative Combat.......................... 137 Crews............................................. 121 Critical Failure................ 88, 113, 138 Crush............................................. 101
D Damage............... 66, 90, 94, 117­118 Damage Types................................98 Defend............................................. 99 Derived Statistics............................10 Desperate Attack..........................100 Deviation......................................... 97 Dice.................................................... 6 Difficult Ground.............................92 Dire Wolf....................................... 181 Disease........................................... 126 Distance........................................... 91 Distracted......................................100

Dogfights....................................... 119 Dog/Wolf....................................... 181 Double Barrel................................105 Dragon........................................... 181 Drake............................................. 182 Dramatic Tasks............. 122, 125, 143 The Drop........................................100 Drowning...................................... 126 Dumb Luck...................................138 Dwarves........................................... 14 Dynamic Backlash........................138
E Edges.................................... 11, 37­53
Background.................................. 37 Combat.........................................40 Legendary.................................... 53 Power............................................ 45 Professional.................................. 47 Requirements............................... 37 Social.............................................50 Summaries................................... 59 Weird............................................. 51 Electricity...................................... 126 Elemental....................... 176, 182, 183 Elves................................................. 14 Encounters.................................... 144 Encumbered.................................... 67 Encumbrance............................ 11, 67 Entangled................................ 98, 101 Environmental Resistance..........176 Environmental Weakness...........176 Ethereal.......................................... 176 Evade............................................. 115 Evasion..........................................100 Exhausted......................................100 Experience..................................... 199 Experienced Characters................54 Exploration................................... 196 Extras8. 7, 91, 111, 202. See also Allies Aftermath..................................... 96 Critical Failure.............................88
F Falling.................................... 103, 127 Fanatics.......................................... 138 Fast Healing..................................139 Fatigue................................... 100, 125
Recovery.....................................100 Fatigued.........................................100 Fear......................................... 124, 176 Fearless.......................................... 176 Finishing Move............................. 101 Fire........................................... 78, 127 Firing Into Melee...................101. See
also Innocent Bystander Fixed Weapons............................. 117 Flamethrowers................................ 78 Flaming Weapons........................ 127 Flee................................................. 116 Flight.............................................. 176 Force............................................... 116 Four-Wheel Drive..........................82 Free Actions....................................92 Free Attacks........................... 101, 109
G Game Master............................. 6, 193

Game Nights.................................194 Ganging Up.................................. 101 Gargantuan................................... 176 Gear.................................................. 11 Ghost.............................................. 183 Giant Worm..................................184 Gifted............................................. 148 GM. See Game Master Goblin............................................ 184 Golden Hour...................................96 Grappling................................ 98, 101 Grenades......................................... 78 Gritty Damage..............................139 Ground Vehicles.............................83 Group Roll.......................................89 Guardian................................... 20­21
H Hack and Slash.............................196 Half-Elves........................................ 15 Half-Folk......................................... 15 Handling......................................... 81 Hard Choices................................139 Hardness......................................... 98 Hardy............................................. 177 Hazards........................... 92, 101, 125 HE. See High Explosive Healing............................................ 96 Heat................................................ 128 Heatstroke..................................... 128 Heavy Armor..................................82 Heavy Flamethrowers...................80 Heavy Weapon...............................66 Heroes Never Die.........................140 High Adventure...........................140 High Altitude................................128 High Explosive...............................66 Hindrances............................9, 22­28
Summaries............................. 56­57 Hold............................................... 102 Hold Steady..................................116 Horror............................................ 197 Horse.............................................. 184
War Horse...................................185 Hot Potato. See Grenades Hover............................................... 82 Humans........................................... 16 Hunger.......................................... 128 HW. See Heavy Weapon
I Illumination.................................. 102 Immunity...................................... 177 Improvised Weapons...................102 Incapacitation............. 87, 95, 96, 100 Infection......................................... 177 Infrared Night Vision....................82 Infravision..................................... 177 Initiative. See Action Cards Injury Table.....................................95 Innocent Bystander......................102 Interludes......................................130 Interrupting.................................. 102 Invulnerability.............................. 177
J Jaded.............................................. 124 Jokers............................................... 92 Joker's Wild.....................................89 Jumping........................................... 93 Jury Rig..........................................149
K Knockout Blow.............................100

L Lich................................................. 185 Limitations....................................150 Limited Actions..............................92 Lion................................................ 185 Low Light Vision.......................... 177
M Magic............................................. 148 Maneuvering Skills.............. 113, 116 Maneuvers.................................... 115 Mass Battles.................................. 131 Mech.............................................. 185 Melee Attacks..................................93 Mines............................................... 79 Miniatures................................... 7, 97 Minimum Speed...........................114 Minimum Strength........................66 Minotaur....................................... 186 Miracles......................................... 148 Mirror Self.....................................169 Missiles............................................ 79 Modern Firearms...........................74
Lasers............................................ 76 Machine Guns..............................75 Pistols............................................ 74 Rifles............................................. 75 Shotguns....................................... 74 Submachine Guns.......................74 Modifiers, Comprehensive...........34 Morale............................................ 132 Mounted Combat.........................103 Movement............................... 92, 103 Mule............................................... 186 Multi-Actions................................ 103 Powers........................................ 151 Multiple Languages.....................140
N Natural Healing.............................96 Natural Weapons.........................104 Nausea........................................... 124 Negotiating................................... 145 Networking................................... 133 Night Vision....................................82 Nonlethal Damage.......................104 No Power Points...........................140
O Obstacles......... 98, 99. See also Cover Occupants..................................... 118 Off-Hand Attacks.........................104 Ogre............................................... 186 Opposed Rolls................................88 Orc.................................................. 186
Chieftain..................................... 186 Out of Control..............113, 117­120 Out of Control (Table).................119 Overcharge...................................... 76
P Pace............................................ 10, 82 Pacing............................................200 Paralysis........................................ 177 Parry..................................... 10, 66, 93 Personal Weapons....................72­73
Black Powder...............................73 Ranged.......................................... 73 Pintle Mount...................................82 Player Character............................. 87 Plot Point Campaigns...................... 7 Poison.................................... 129, 177 Power Modifiers...........................152 Power Points................... 90, 132, 147

Powers Activation................................... 151 Maintaining....................... 140, 151 Naming....................................... 154 Preparation................................140 Starting....................................... 147
Prone........................................ 93, 104 Psionics.......................................... 148 Push............................................... 104
Q Quick Encounters.........................134
R Radiation....................................... 129 Raise................................................. 88 Rakashans....................................... 16 Ram................................................ 116 Range......................................... 66, 97
Penalties....................................... 93 Ranged Attacks...............................93 Ranged Weapons in Melee..........104 Range Increment..................114, 120 Ranks............................................... 54 Raptor............................................ 187 Rate of Fire................................ 66, 93 Reach................................................ 66 Reaction Fire........................... 82, 117 Reactions......................................... 33 Readying Weapons......................105 Recharging.................................... 151 Recoil........................... 75­76, 93, 105 Regeneration................................. 177 Relative Speed Penalty................106 Reload.............................................. 66 Reloading...................................... 105 Repairs........................................... 118 Reroll................................................ 89 Resilient......................................... 178 Rocket Launchers...........................80 RoF. See Rate of Fire Roleplaying................................... 197 Round.............................................. 91 Rule of Threes...............................128 Running........................... 92, 104, 105 Running the Game.......................198
S Safety Harnesses............................82 Saurians........................................... 17 Savage Settings............................. 6­7 Savage Tales...................................... 7 Scale................................... 61, 97, 106 Sentinel.......................................... 169 Setting Rules.................................136 Setting Weapons...........................103 Shaken......................... 90, 94, 96, 102 Shark.............................................. 187
Great White................................ 187 Shields............................................. 71
Bash............................................... 71 Shorting......................................... 151 Shotguns.................................. 74, 105 Shrapnel.......................................... 77 Shuffle.............................................. 91 Situational Rules............................ 97 Size................................... 81, 106, 178 Skeleton......................................... 187 Skills..................................... 10, 29­36
Buying..........................................10 Core...............................................10 Creating........................................ 32 Familiarization............................ 36 Philosophy................................... 32

INDEX

207

SAVAGE WORLDS

Specialization............................ 141 Unskilled Attempts.....................89 Sleep............................................... 129 Sloped Armor.................................82 Slugs............................................... 105 Smarts........................................ 10, 29 Smoke Inhalation.........................128 Snake.............................................. 188 Snapfire........................................... 66 Soak Rolls........................................96 Social Conflict...............................143 Soldier....................................112, 188 Solid Shot........................................ 77 Spacecraft........................................ 82 Special Weapons............................ 77 Speed................................. 61, 97, 106 Spider, Giant.................................188 Spirit.......................................... 10, 29 Stabilizer.......................................... 82 Starting Funds................................65 State Summaries...........................203 Stealth Paint....................................82 Strength..................................... 10, 29 Stun................................................ 178 Stunned................................. 102, 106 Supers............................................ 149 Support.................... 96, 106, 123, 145 Suppressive Fire........................... 107 Surprise......................................... 108 Swarm............................................ 189 Swat................................................ 178 Synergy..........................................150

T Tank Guns.......................................80 Target Number............................... 87 Task Tokens...................................122 Templates........................................ 97 Tentacles........................................ 178 Terror............................................. 124 Test.........................................107, 108 Thirst.............................................. 129 Three-Round Burst......................... 67 Time................................................. 91 Tinkering....................................... 153 TN. See Target Number Top Speed........................................ 81 Torpedoes........................................80 Touch Attack.................................108 Toughness................................. 11, 81 Tracked............................................ 82 Trait........................................ 9, 29­36
Changes........................................30 Rolls.............................................. 87 Summaries................................... 58 Trappings......................................150 Travel............................................. 144 Troll................................................ 189 Turn.................................................. 91 Turret............................................... 82 Two Weapons................................108
U Unarmed Defender......................109 Unarmored Hero.......................... 141 Undead.......................................... 178

Unstable Platform........................109
V Vampire......................................... 189 Vampire, Ancient..........................190 Vehicle Critical Hits (Table).........119 Vehicles........................ 81, 83­85, 109
Converting................................... 82 Critical Hits........................ 117, 119 Movement..................................120 Vehicular Weapons.........................80 Vigor........................................... 10, 29 Vulnerable.....................................100
W Wall Walker...................................178 Watercraft........................................ 85 Weakness....................................... 178 Wealth............................................ 145 Weapon Mount...............................82 Weird Science................................148 Werewolf.......................................190 Wild Attack...................................109 Wild Card........................................ 87 Wild Die............................. 87­88, 103 Withdrawing................................. 109 Wound Cap................................... 141 Wound Penalties......................95­96 Wounds..................................... 87, 95 Wrecked......................................... 118
Z Zombie........................................... 191

208

This page inserted for easier double-sided printing.

